Generative AI, the most popular current approach to AI, consists of large language models (LLMs) that are trained to produce outputs that are plausible, but not necessarily correct. Although their abilities are often uncanny, they are lacking in aspects of reasoning, leading LLMs to be less than completely trustworthy. Furthermore, their results tend to be both unpredictable and uninterpretable. We lay out 16 desiderata for future AI, and discuss an alternative approach to AI which could theoretically address many of the limitations associated with current approaches: AI educated with curated pieces of explicit knowledge and rules of thumb, enabling an inference engine to automatically deduce the logical entailments of all that knowledge. Even long arguments produced this way can be both trustworthy and interpretable, since the full step-by-step line of reasoning is always available, and for each step the provenance of the knowledge used can be documented and audited. There is however a catch: if the logical language is expressive enough to fully represent the meaning of anything we can say in English, then the inference engine runs much too slowly. That's why symbolic AI systems typically settle for some fast but much less expressive logic, such as knowledge graphs. We describe how one AI system, Cyc, has developed ways to overcome that tradeoff and is able to reason in higher order logic in real time. We suggest that any trustworthy general AI will need to hybridize the approaches, the LLM approach and more formal approach, and lay out a path to realizing that dream. Requirements Engineering (RE) is a critical phase in software development including the elicitation, analysis, specification, and validation of software requirements. Despite the importance of RE, it remains a challenging process due to the complexities of communication, uncertainty in the early stages and inadequate automation support. In recent years, large-language models (LLMs) have shown significant promise in diverse domains, including natural language processing, code generation, and program understanding. This chapter explores the potential of LLMs in driving RE processes, aiming to improve the efficiency and accuracy of requirements-related tasks. We propose key directions and SWOT analysis for research and development in using LLMs for RE, focusing on the potential for requirements elicitation, analysis, specification, and validation. We further present the results from a preliminary evaluation, in this context. A moderately detailed consideration of interactive LLMs as cognitive systems is given, focusing on LLMs circa mid-2023 such as ChatGPT, GPT-4, Bard, Llama, etc.. Cognitive strengths of these systems are reviewed, and then careful attention is paid to the substantial differences between the sort of cognitive system these LLMs are, and the sort of cognitive systems human beings are. It is found that many of the practical weaknesses of these AI systems can be tied specifically to lacks in the basic cognitive architectures according to which these systems are built. It is argued that incremental improvement of such LLMs is not a viable approach to working toward human-level AGI, in practical terms given realizable amounts of compute resources. This does not imply there is nothing to learn about human-level AGI from studying and experimenting with LLMs, nor that LLMs cannot form significant parts of human-level AGI architectures that also incorporate other ideas. Social and ethical matters regarding LLMs are very briefly touched from this perspective, which implies that while care should be taken regarding misinformation and other issues, and economic upheavals will need their own social remedies based on their unpredictable course as with any powerfully impactful technology, overall the sort of policy needed as regards modern LLMs is quite different than would be the case if a more credible approximation to human-level AGI were at hand. As the development of large-scale Generative AI models evolve beyond text (1D) generation to include image (2D) and video (3D) generation, processing spatial and temporal information presents unique challenges to quality, performance, and efficiency. We present the first work towards understanding this new system design space for multi-modal text-to-image (TTI) and text-to-video (TTV) generation models. Current model architecture designs are bifurcated into 2 categories: Diffusion- and Transformer-based models. Our systematic performance characterization on a suite of eight representative TTI/TTV models shows that after state-of-the-art optimization techniques such as Flash Attention are applied, Convolution accounts for up to 44% of execution time for Diffusion-based TTI models, while Linear layers consume up to 49% of execution time for Transformer-based models. We additionally observe that Diffusion-based TTI models resemble the Prefill stage of LLM inference, and benefit from 1.1-2.5x greater speedup from Flash Attention than Transformer-based TTI models that resemble the Decode phase. Since optimizations designed for LLMs do not map directly onto TTI/TTV models, we must conduct a thorough characterization of these workloads to gain insights for new optimization opportunities. In doing so, we define sequence length in the context of TTI/TTV models and observe sequence length can vary up to 4x in Diffusion model inference. We additionally observe temporal aspects of TTV workloads pose unique system bottlenecks, with Temporal Attention accounting for over 60% of total Attention time. Overall, our in-depth system performance characterization is a critical first step towards designing efficient and deployable systems for emerging TTI/TTV workloads. Generative AI models have shown impressive performance on many Natural Language Processing tasks such as language understanding, reasoning, and language generation. An important question being asked by the AI community today is about the capabilities and limits of these models, and it is clear that evaluating generative AI is very challenging. Most studies on generative LLMs have been restricted to English and it is unclear how capable these models are at understanding and generating text in other languages. We present the first comprehensive benchmarking of generative LLMs - MEGA, which evaluates models on standard NLP benchmarks, covering 16 NLP datasets across 70 typologically diverse languages. We compare the performance of generative LLMs including Chat-GPT and GPT-4 to State of the Art (SOTA) non-autoregressive models on these tasks to determine how well generative models perform compared to the previous generation of LLMs. We present a thorough analysis of the performance of models across languages and tasks and discuss challenges in improving the performance of generative LLMs on low-resource languages. We create a framework for evaluating generative LLMs in the multilingual setting and provide directions for future progress in the field. Understanding shifts in creative work will help guide AI’s impact on the media ecosystem The capabilities of a new class of tools, colloquially known as generative artificial intelligence (AI), is a topic of much debate. One prominent application thus far is the production of high-quality artistic media for visual arts, concept art, music, and literature, as well as video and animation. For example, diffusion models can synthesize high-quality images (1), and large language models (LLMs) can produce sensible-sounding and impressive prose and verse in a wide range of contexts (2). The generative capabilities of these tools are likely to fundamentally alter the creative processes by which creators formulate ideas and put them into production. As creativity is reimagined, so too may be many sectors of society. Understanding the impact of generative AI—and making policy decisions around it—requires new interdisciplinary scientific inquiry into culture, economics, law, algorithms, and the interaction of technology and creativity. Recent advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) and specifically generative AI (GenAI) are threatening to fundamentally reshape computing and society. Largely driven by large language models (LLMs), many tools are now able to interpret and generate both natural language instructions and source code. These capabilities have sparked urgent questions in the computing education community around how educators should adapt their pedagogy to address the challenges and to leverage the opportunities presented by this new technology. In this working group report, we undertake a comprehensive exploration of generative AI in the context of computing education and make five significant contributions. First, we provide a detailed review of the literature on LLMs in computing education and synthesise findings from 71 primary articles, nearly 80% of which have been published in the first 8 months of 2023. Second, we report the findings of a survey of computing students and instructors from across 20 countries, capturing prevailing attitudes towards GenAI/LLMs and their use in computing education contexts. Third, to understand how pedagogy is already changing, we offer insights collected from in-depth interviews with 22 computing educators from five continents. Fourth, we use the ACM Code of Ethics to frame a discussion of ethical issues raised by the use of large language models in computing education, and we provide concrete advice for policy makers, educators, and students. Finally, we benchmark the performance of several current GenAI models/tools on various computing education datasets, and highlight the extent to which the capabilities of current models are rapidly improving. There is little doubt that LLMs and other forms of GenAI will have a profound impact on computing education over the coming years. However, just as the technology will continue to improve, so will our collective knowledge about how to leverage these new models and tools in educational settings. We expect many important conversations around this topic will emerge as the community explores how to provide more effective, inclusive, and personalised learning experiences. Our aim is that this report will serve as a focal point for both researchers and practitioners who are exploring, adapting, using, and evaluating GenAI and LLM-based tools in computing classrooms. Every major technical invention resurfaces the dual-use dilemma -- the new technology has the potential to be used for good as well as for harm. Generative AI (GenAI) techniques, such as large language models (LLMs) and diffusion models, have shown remarkable capabilities (e.g., in-context learning, code-completion, and text-to-image generation and editing). However, GenAI can be used just as well by attackers to generate new attacks and increase the velocity and efficacy of existing attacks. This paper reports the findings of a workshop held at Google (co-organized by Stanford University and the University of Wisconsin-Madison) on the dual-use dilemma posed by GenAI. This paper is not meant to be comprehensive, but is rather an attempt to synthesize some of the interesting findings from the workshop. We discuss short-term and long-term goals for the community on this topic. We hope this paper provides both a launching point for a discussion on this important topic as well as interesting problems that the research community can work to address. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) and large language models (LLMs), exemplified by ChatGPT, are promising for revolutionizing data and information management in healthcare and medicine. However, there is scant literature guiding their integration for non-AI professionals. This study conducts a scoping literature review to address the critical need for guidance on integrating generative AI and LLMs into healthcare and medical practices. It elucidates the distinct mechanisms underpinning these technologies, such as Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLFH), including few-shot learning and chain-of-thought reasoning, which differentiates them from traditional, rule-based AI systems. It requires an inclusive, collaborative co-design process that engages all pertinent stakeholders, including clinicians and consumers, to achieve these benefits. Although global research is examining both opportunities and challenges, including ethical and legal dimensions, LLMs offer promising advancements in healthcare by enhancing data management, information retrieval, and decision-making processes. Continued innovation in data acquisition, model fine-tuning, prompt strategy development, evaluation, and system implementation is imperative for realizing the full potential of these technologies. Organizations should proactively engage with these technologies to improve healthcare quality, safety, and efficiency, adhering to ethical and legal guidelines for responsible application. Easy-to-use generative artificial intelligence (AI) is democratizing the use of AI in innovation management and may significantly change the way how we work and innovate. In this article, we show how large language models (LLMs), such as generative pretrained transformer (GPT), can augment the early phases of innovation, in particular, exploration, ideation, and digital prototyping. Drawing on six months of experimenting with LLMs in internal and client innovation projects, we share first-hand experiences and concrete examples of AI-assisted approaches. The article highlights a large variety of use cases for generative AI ranging from user journey mapping to idea generation and prototyping and foreshadows the promising role LLMs may play in future knowledge management systems. Moreover, we argue that generative AI may become a game changer in early prototyping as the delegation of tasks to an artificial agent can result in faster iterations and reduced costs. Our experiences also provide insights into how human innovation teams purposively and effectively interact with AIs and integrate them into their workflows. Generative large language models (LLMs) can be a powerful tool for augmenting text annotation procedures, but their performance varies across annotation tasks due to prompt quality, text data idiosyncrasies, and conceptual difficulty. Because these challenges will persist even as LLM technology improves, we argue that any automated annotation process using an LLM must validate the LLM's performance against labels generated by humans. To this end, we outline a workflow to harness the annotation potential of LLMs in a principled, efficient way. Using GPT-4, we validate this approach by replicating 27 annotation tasks across 11 datasets from recent social science articles in high-impact journals. We find that LLM performance for text annotation is promising but highly contingent on both the dataset and the type of annotation task, which reinforces the necessity to validate on a task-by-task basis. We make available easy-to-use software designed to implement our workflow and streamline the deployment of LLMs for automated annotation. The convergence of generative large language models (LLMs), edge networks, and multi-agent systems represents a groundbreaking synergy that holds immense promise for future wireless generations, harnessing the power of collective intelligence and paving the way for self-governed networks where intelligent decision-making happens right at the edge. This article puts the stepping-stone for incorporating multi-agent generative artificial intelligence (AI) in wireless networks, and sets the scene for realizing on-device LLMs, where multi-agent LLMs are collaboratively planning and solving tasks to achieve a number of network goals. We further investigate the profound limitations of cloud-based LLMs, and explore multi-agent LLMs from a game theoretic perspective, where agents collaboratively solve tasks in competitive environments. Moreover, we establish the underpinnings for the architecture design of wireless multi-agent generative AI systems at the network level and the agent level, and we identify the wireless technologies that are envisioned to play a key role in enabling on-device LLM. To demonstrate the promising potentials of wireless multi-agent generative AI networks, we highlight the benefits that can be achieved when implementing wireless generative agents in intent-based networking, and we provide a case study to showcase how on-device LLMs can contribute to solving network intents in a collaborative fashion. We finally shed lights on potential challenges and sketch a research roadmap towards realizing the vision of wireless collective intelligence. The rise of powerful large language models (LLMs) brings about tremendous opportunities for innovation but also looming risks for individuals and society at large. We have reached a pivotal moment for ensuring that LLMs and LLM-infused applications are developed and deployed responsibly. However, a central pillar of responsible AI -- transparency -- is largely missing from the current discourse around LLMs. It is paramount to pursue new approaches to provide transparency for LLMs, and years of research at the intersection of AI and human-computer interaction (HCI) highlight that we must do so with a human-centered perspective: Transparency is fundamentally about supporting appropriate human understanding, and this understanding is sought by different stakeholders with different goals in different contexts. In this new era of LLMs, we must develop and design approaches to transparency by considering the needs of stakeholders in the emerging LLM ecosystem, the novel types of LLM-infused applications being built, and the new usage patterns and challenges around LLMs, all while building on lessons learned about how people process, interact with, and make use of information. We reflect on the unique challenges that arise in providing transparency for LLMs, along with lessons learned from HCI and responsible AI research that has taken a human-centered perspective on AI transparency. We then lay out four common approaches that the community has taken to achieve transparency -- model reporting, publishing evaluation results, providing explanations, and communicating uncertainty -- and call out open questions around how these approaches may or may not be applied to LLMs. We hope this provides a starting point for discussion and a useful roadmap for future research. This paper explores the concept of leveraging generative AI as a mapping assistant for enhancing the efficiency of collaborative mapping. We present results of an experiment that combines multiple sources of volunteered geographic information (VGI) and large language models (LLMs). Three analysts described the content of crowdsourced Mapillary street-level photographs taken along roads in a small test area in Miami, Florida. GPT-3.5-turbo was instructed to suggest the most appropriate tagging for each road in OpenStreetMap (OSM). The study also explores the utilization of BLIP-2, a state-of-the-art multimodal pre-training method as an artificial analyst of street-level photographs in addition to human analysts. Results demonstrate two ways to effectively increase the accuracy of mapping suggestions without modifying the underlying AI models: by (1) providing a more detailed description of source photographs, and (2) combining prompt engineering with additional context (e.g. location and objects detected along a road). The first approach increases the suggestion accuracy by up to 29%, and the second one by up to 20%. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to revolutionize research. I analyze how large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT can assist economists by describing dozens of use cases in six areas: ideation and feedback, writing, background research, data analysis, coding, and mathematical derivations. I provide general instructions and demonstrate specific examples of how to take advantage of each of these, classifying the LLM capabilities from experimental to highly useful. I argue that economists can reap significant productivity gains by taking advantage of generative AI to automate micro-tasks. Moreover, these gains will grow as the performance of AI systems continues to improve. I also speculate on the longer-term implications of AI-powered cognitive automation for economic research. The online resources associated with this paper explain how to get started and will provide regular updates on the latest capabilities of generative AI in economics. (JEL A11, C45, D83, I23, O33) Generative AI models and applications are being rapidly developed and deployed across a wide spectrum of industries and applications ranging from writing and email assistants to graphic design and art generation to educational assistants to coding to drug discovery. However, there are several ethical and social considerations associated with generative AI models and applications. These concerns include lack of interpretability, bias and discrimination, privacy, lack of model robustness, fake and misleading content, copyright implications, plagiarism, and environmental impact associated with training and inference of generative AI models. In this tutorial, we first motivate the need for adopting responsible AI principles when developing and deploying large language models (LLMs) and other generative AI models, as part of a broader AI model governance and responsible AI framework, from societal, legal, user, and model developer perspectives, and provide a roadmap for thinking about responsible AI for generative AI in practice. We provide a brief technical overview of text and image generation models, and highlight the key responsible AI desiderata associated with these models. We then describe the technical considerations and challenges associated with realizing the above desiderata in practice. We focus on real-world generative AI use cases spanning domains such as media generation, writing assistants, copywriting, code generation, and conversational assistants, present practical solution approaches / guidelines for applying responsible AI techniques effectively, discuss lessons learned from deploying responsible AI approaches for generative AI applications in practice, and highlight the key open research problems. We hope that our tutorial will inform both researchers and practitioners, stimulate further research on responsible AI in the context of generative AI, and pave the way for building more reliable and trustworthy generative AI applications in the future. Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown impressive performance across a variety of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and natural language processing tasks, such as content creation, report generation, etc. However, unregulated malign application of these models can create undesirable consequences such as generation of fake news, plagiarism, etc. As a result, accurate detection of AI-generated language can be crucial in responsible usage of LLMs. In this work, we explore 1) whether a certain body of text is AI generated or written by human, and 2) attribution of a specific language model in generating a body of text. Texts in both English and Spanish are considered. The datasets used in this study are provided as part of the Automated Text Identification (AuTexTification) shared task. For each of the research objectives stated above, we propose an ensemble neural model that generates probabilities from different pre-trained LLMs which are used as features to a Traditional Machine Learning (TML) classifier following it. For the first task of distinguishing between AI and human generated text, our model ranked in fifth and thirteenth place (with macro $F1$ scores of 0.733 and 0.649) for English and Spanish texts, respectively. For the second task on model attribution, our model ranked in first place with macro $F1$ scores of 0.625 and 0.653 for English and Spanish texts, respectively. This paper presents the FormAI dataset, a large collection of 112,000 AI-generated compilable and independent C programs with vulnerability classification. We introduce a dynamic zero-shot prompting technique constructed to spawn diverse programs utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs). The dataset is generated by GPT-3.5-turbo and comprises programs with varying levels of complexity. Some programs handle complicated tasks like network management, table games, or encryption, while others deal with simpler tasks like string manipulation. Every program is labeled with the vulnerabilities found within the source code, indicating the type, line number, and vulnerable function name. This is accomplished by employing a formal verification method using the Efficient SMT-based Bounded Model Checker (ESBMC), which uses model checking, abstract interpretation, constraint programming, and satisfiability modulo theories to reason over safety/security properties in programs. This approach definitively detects vulnerabilities and offers a formal model known as a counterexample, thus eliminating the possibility of generating false positive reports. We have associated the identified vulnerabilities with Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) numbers. We make the source code available for the 112,000 programs, accompanied by a separate file containing the vulnerabilities detected in each program, making the dataset ideal for training LLMs and machine learning algorithms. Our study unveiled that according to ESBMC, 51.24% of the programs generated by GPT-3.5 contained vulnerabilities, thereby presenting considerable risks to software safety and security. Large Language Models (LLMs) are revolutionizing the field of computing education with their powerful code-generating capabilities. Traditional pedagogical practices have focused on code writing tasks, but there is now a shift in importance towards code reading, comprehension and evaluation of LLM-generated code. Alongside this shift, an important new skill is emerging -- the ability to solve programming tasks by constructing good prompts for code-generating models. In this work we introduce a new type of programming exercise to hone this nascent skill: 'Prompt Problems'. Prompt Problems are designed to help students learn how to write effective prompts for AI code generators. A student solves a Prompt Problem by crafting a natural language prompt which, when provided as input to an LLM, outputs code that successfully solves a specified programming task. We also present a new web-based tool called Promptly which hosts a repository of Prompt Problems and supports the automated evaluation of prompt-generated code. We deploy Promptly for the first time in one CS1 and one CS2 course and describe our experiences, which include student perceptions of this new type of activity and their interactions with the tool. We find that students are enthusiastic about Prompt Problems, and appreciate how the problems engage their computational thinking skills and expose them to new programming constructs. We discuss ideas for the future development of new variations of Prompt Problems, and the need to carefully study their integration into classroom practice. Generative AI (GenAI), encompassing image generation and large language models (LLMs), has opened new avenues for gameplay experiences. This paper introduces "1001 Nights", a narrative game centered on GenAI. Drawing inspiration from Wittgenstein's note, "The limits of my language mean the limits of my world", the game exemplifies the concept of language as reality. The protagonist, Shahrzad, possesses a unique power: specific keywords, such as "sword" or "shield", when spoken by others in tales, materialize as tangible weapons, serving as battle equipment against the King. Players guide the LLM-driven King in co-creating narratives, with GPT-4 employing LLM reasoning methods to ensure story consistency. As these narratives progress, the depicted world is dynamically generated and visualized through Stable Diffusion, blurring the boundaries between narrative and in-game reality. This fusion of interactive storytelling combines gameplay paradigms and story together with dynamic content generation. Players not only aim to alter Shahrzad's fate from the original folklore, but also leverage the power of natural language to shape the game's world. With this example, we propose the term "AI-Native games" to categorize innovative games where GenAI is fundamental to the game's novel mechanics and very existence. Overview We have all read the headlines heralding, often hyperbolically, the latest advances in text- and image-based Artificial Intelligence (AI). What is perhaps most unique about these developments is that they now make relatively good AI accessible to the average Internet user. These new services respond to human prompts, written in natural language, with generated output that appears to satisfy the prompt. Consequently, they are categorized under the term “generative AI,” whether they are generating text, images, or other media. They work by modeling human language statistically, to “learn” patterns from extremely large datasets of human-created content, with those that specifically focus on text therefore called Large Language Models (LLMs). As we have all tried products such as ChatGPT or Midjourney over the past year, we have undoubtedly begun to wonder how and when they might impact our archaeological work. Here, I review the state of this type of AI and the current challenges with using it meaningfully, and I consider its potential for archaeologists. Large Language Model (LLM) based Generative AI systems have seen significant progress in recent years. Integrating a knowledge retrieval architecture allows for seamless integration of private data into publicly available Generative AI systems using pre-trained LLM without requiring additional model fine-tuning. Moreover, Retrieval-Centric Generation (RCG) approach, a promising future research direction that explicitly separates roles of LLMs and retrievers in context interpretation and knowledge memorization, potentially leads to more efficient implementation. SimplyRetrieve is an open-source tool with the goal of providing a localized, lightweight, and user-friendly interface to these sophisticated advancements to the machine learning community. SimplyRetrieve features a GUI and API based RCG platform, assisted by a Private Knowledge Base Constructor and a Retrieval Tuning Module. By leveraging these capabilities, users can explore the potential of RCG for improving generative AI performance while maintaining privacy standards. The tool is available at https://github.com/RCGAI/SimplyRetrieve with an MIT license. This study presents a method for implementing generative AI services by utilizing the Large Language Models (LLM) application architecture. With recent advancements in generative AI technology, LLMs have gained prominence across various domains. In this context, the research addresses the challenge of information scarcity and proposes specific remedies by harnessing LLM capabilities. The investigation delves into strategies for mitigating the issue of inadequate data, offering tailored solutions. The study delves into the efficacy of employing fine-tuning techniques and direct document integration to alleviate data insufficiency. A significant contribution of this work is the development of a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) model, which tackles the aforementioned challenges. The RAG model is carefully designed to enhance information storage and retrieval processes, ensuring improved content generation. The research elucidates the key phases of the information storage and retrieval methodology underpinned by the RAG model. A comprehensive analysis of these steps is undertaken, emphasizing their significance in addressing the scarcity of data. The study highlights the efficacy of the proposed method, showcasing its applicability through illustrative instances. By implementing the RAG model for information storage and retrieval, the research not only contributes to a deeper comprehension of generative AI technology but also facilitates its practical usability within enterprises utilizing LLMs. This work holds substantial value in advancing the field of generative AI, offering insights into enhancing data-driven content generation and fostering active utilization of LLM-based services within corporate settings. Communicating science and technology is essential for the public to understand and engage in a rapidly changing world. Tweetorials are an emerging phenomenon where experts explain STEM topics on social media in creative and engaging ways. However, STEM experts struggle to write an engaging"hook"in the first tweet that captures the reader's attention. We propose methods to use large language models (LLMs) to help users scaffold their process of writing a relatable hook for complex scientific topics. We demonstrate that LLMs can help writers find everyday experiences that are relatable and interesting to the public, avoid jargon, and spark curiosity. Our evaluation shows that the system reduces cognitive load and helps people write better hooks. Lastly, we discuss the importance of interactivity with LLMs to preserve the correctness, effectiveness, and authenticity of the writing. Large language models (LLMs) are increasingly becoming all-powerful and pervasive via deployment in sociotechnical systems. Yet these language models, be it for classification or generation, have been shown to be biased, behave irresponsibly, causing harm to people at scale. It is crucial to audit these language models rigorously before deployment. Existing auditing tools use either or both humans and AI to find failures. In this work, we draw upon literature in human-AI collaboration and sensemaking, and interview research experts in safe and fair AI, to build upon the auditing tool: AdaTest [36], which is powered by a generative LLM. Through the design process we highlight the importance of sensemaking and human-AI communication to leverage complementary strengths of humans and generative models in collaborative auditing. To evaluate the effectiveness of AdaTest++, the augmented tool, we conduct user studies with participants auditing two commercial language models: OpenAI’s GPT-3 and Azure’s sentiment analysis model. Qualitative analysis shows that AdaTest++ effectively leverages human strengths such as schematization, hypothesis testing. Further, with our tool, users identified a variety of failures modes, covering 26 different topics over 2 tasks, that have been shown in formal audits and also those previously under-reported. Academic writing is an indispensable yet laborious part of the research enterprise. This Perspective maps out principles and methods for using generative artificial intelligence (AI), specifically large language models (LLMs), to elevate the quality and efficiency of academic writing. We introduce a human-AI collaborative framework that delineates the rationale (why), process (how), and nature (what) of AI engagement in writing. The framework pinpoints both short-term and long-term reasons for engagement and their underlying mechanisms (e.g., cognitive offloading and imaginative stimulation). It reveals the role of AI throughout the writing process, conceptualized through a two-stage model for human-AI collaborative writing, and the nature of AI assistance in writing, represented through a model of writing-assistance types and levels. Building on this framework, we describe effective prompting techniques for incorporating AI into the writing routine (outlining, drafting, and editing) as well as strategies for maintaining rigorous scholarship, adhering to varied journal policies, and avoiding overreliance on AI. Ultimately, the prudent integration of AI into academic writing can ease the communication burden, empower authors, accelerate discovery, and promote diversity in science. In the last decade, despite rapid advancements in artificial intelligence (AI) transforming many industry practices, construction largely lags in adoption. Recently, the emergence and rapid adoption of advanced large language models (LLMs) like OpenAI’s GPT, Google’s PaLM, and Meta’s Llama have shown great potential and sparked considerable global interest. However, the current surge lacks a study investigating the opportunities and challenges of implementing Generative AI (GenAI) in the construction sector, creating a critical knowledge gap for researchers and practitioners. This underlines the necessity to explore the prospects and complexities of GenAI integration. Bridging this gap is fundamental to optimizing GenAI’s early stage adoption within the construction sector. Given GenAI’s unprecedented capabilities to generate human-like content based on learning from existing content, we reflect on two guiding questions: What will the future bring for GenAI in the construction industry? What are the potential opportunities and challenges in implementing GenAI in the construction industry? This study delves into reflected perception in literature, analyzes the industry perception using programming-based word cloud and frequency analysis, and integrates authors’ opinions to answer these questions. This paper recommends a conceptual GenAI implementation framework, provides practical recommendations, summarizes future research questions, and builds foundational literature to foster subsequent research expansion in GenAI within the construction and its allied architecture and engineering domains. Borges the person had trained an LLM and were happy for it to continue writing on his behalf once he had passed, perhaps the causal connection would be strong enough to consider those works his. Porsdam Mann and colleagues consider an entirely appropriate range of ethical questions. If LLMs can be trained to mimic authors in bioethics, that’s an important finding for publishers and educators. One of the outcomes they considered was the extent to which an LLM trained on their writing could generate “novel ideas.” Their conclusion was that it didn’t, but insofar as conceptual analysis draws upon preexisting ideas, there doesn’t appear to be an in-principle reason why generative AI cannot. Some have speculated about the possibility of AI passing a bioethical Turing test (Zohny, McMillan, and King 2023, 79); perhaps that’s not far away for philosophical bioethicists. Code contains security and functional bugs. The process of identifying and localizing them is difficult and relies on human labor. In this work, we present a novel approach (FLAG) to assist human debuggers. FLAG is based on the lexical capabilities of generative AI, specifically, Large Language Models (LLMs). Here, we input a code file then extract and regenerate each line within that file for self-comparison. By comparing the original code with an LLM-generated alternative, we can flag notable differences as anomalies for further inspection, with features such as distance from comments and LLM confidence also aiding this classification. This reduces the inspection search space for the designer. Unlike other automated approaches in this area, FLAG is language-agnostic, can work on incomplete (and even non-compiling) code and requires no creation of security properties, functional tests or definition of rules. In this work, we explore the features that help LLMs in this classification and evaluate the performance of FLAG on known bugs. We use 121 benchmarks across C, Python and Verilog; with each benchmark containing a known security or functional weakness. We conduct the experiments using two state of the art LLMs in OpenAI's code-davinci-002 and gpt-3.5-turbo, but our approach may be used by other models. FLAG can identify 101 of the defects and helps reduce the search space to 12-17% of source code. Managing rapidly growing decentralized gaming communities brings unique challenges at the nexus of cultural economics and technology. This paper introduces a streamlined analytical framework that utilizes Large Language Models (LLMs), in this instance open-access generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) models, offering an efficient solution with deeper insights into community dynamics. The framework aids moderators in identifying pseudonymous actor intent, moderating toxic behavior, rewarding desired actions to avoid unintended consequences of blockchain-based gaming, and gauging community sentiment as communities venture into metaverse platforms and plan for hypergrowth. This framework strengthens community controls, eases onboarding, and promotes a common moral mission across communities while reducing agency costs by 95 pct. Highlighting the transformative role of generative AI, the paper emphasizes its potential to redefine the cost of cultural production. It showcases the utility of GPTs in digital community management, expanding their implications in cultural economics and transmedia storytelling. The rapid advancements in Artificial Intelligence (AI), particularly in generative AI and foundational models (FMs), have ushered in transformative changes across various industries. Large language models (LLMs), a type of FM, have demonstrated their prowess in natural language processing tasks and content generation, revolutionizing how we interact with software products and services. This article explores the integration of FMs in the telecommunications industry, shedding light on the concept of AI native telco, where AI is seamlessly woven into the fabric of telecom products. It delves into the engineering considerations and unique challenges associated with implementing FMs into the software life cycle, emphasizing the need for AI native-first approaches. Despite the enormous potential of FMs, ethical, regulatory, and operational challenges require careful consideration, especially in mission-critical telecom contexts. As the telecom industry seeks to harness the power of AI, a comprehensive understanding of these challenges is vital to thrive in a fiercely competitive market. Since 2022, there are plenty of discussion on generative AI tools such as OpenAI's GPT (Generative Pretrained Transformer), large language models (LLMs), and Google's Bard. These tools rapidly have gained worldwide attention, and several users have attracted by the power of these tools. In this paper, the generative AI used to develop types of assessments which are widely used in Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) is discussed. The main focus of this paper is to test the power of Generative AI tools used to generate assessments which can be used by MOOC developers. The prompts mentioned in this paper can be used by any educators while developing assessments, and not just limited to MOOC developers. Moreover, learners can use the same methods to generate various types of assessments to self-evaluate the progress in their study. As a case study, to test the power of these tools, we have considered how the assessments can be generated while teaching a foreign language course. The use of artificial intelligence (AI) in research across all disciplines is becoming ubiquitous. However, this ubiquity is largely driven by hyperspecific AI models developed during scientific studies for accomplishing a well-defined, data-dense task. These AI models introduce apparent, human-recognizable biases because they are trained with finite, specific data sets and parameters. However, the efficacy of using large language models (LLMs) -- and LLM-powered generative AI tools, such as ChatGPT -- to assist the research process is currently indeterminate. These generative AI tools, trained on general and imperceptibly large datasets along with human feedback, present challenges in identifying and addressing biases. Furthermore, these models are susceptible to goal misgeneralization, hallucinations, and adversarial attacks such as red teaming prompts -- which can be unintentionally performed by human researchers, resulting in harmful outputs. These outputs are reinforced in research -- where an increasing number of individuals have begun to use generative AI to compose manuscripts. Efforts into AI interpretability lag behind development, and the implicit variations that occur when prompting and providing context to a chatbot introduce uncertainty and irreproducibility. We thereby find that incorporating generative AI in the process of writing research manuscripts introduces a new type of context-induced algorithmic bias and has unintended side effects that are largely detrimental to academia, knowledge production, and communicating research. OBJECTIVE
Information retrieval (IR, also known as search) systems are ubiquitous in modern times. How does the emergence of generative artificial intelligence (AI), based on large language models (LLMs), fit into the IR process?


PROCESS
This perspective explores the use of generative AI in the context of the motivations, considerations, and outcomes of the IR process with a focus on the academic use of such systems.


CONCLUSIONS
There are many information needs, from simple to complex, that motivate use of IR. Users of such systems, particularly academics, have concerns for authoritativeness, timeliness, and contextualization of search. While LLMs may provide functionality that aids the IR process, the continued need for search systems, and research into their improvement, remains essential. We aim to determine the extent and content of guidance for authors regarding the use of generative-AI (GAI), Generative Pretrained models (GPTs) and Large Language Models (LLMs) powered tools among the top 100 academic publishers and journals in science. The websites of these publishers and journals were screened from between 19th and 20th May 2023. Among the largest 100 publishers, 17% provided guidance on the use of GAI, of which 12 (70.6%) were among the top 25 publishers. Among the top 100 journals, 70% have provided guidance on GAI. Of those with guidance, 94.1% of publishers and 95.7% of journals prohibited the inclusion of GAI as an author. Four journals (5.7%) explicitly prohibit the use of GAI in the generation of a manuscript, while 3 (17.6%) publishers and 15 (21.4%) journals indicated their guidance exclusively applies to the writing process. When disclosing the use of GAI, 42.8% of publishers and 44.3% of journals included specific disclosure criteria. There was variability in guidance of where to disclose the use of GAI, including in the methods, acknowledgments, cover letter, or a new section. There was also variability in how to access GAI guidance and the linking of journal and publisher instructions to authors. There is a lack of guidance by some top publishers and journals on the use of GAI by authors. Among those publishers and journals that provide guidance, there is substantial heterogeneity in the allowable uses of GAI and in how it should be disclosed, with this heterogeneity persisting among affiliated publishers and journals in some instances. The lack of standardization burdens authors and threatens to limit the effectiveness of these regulations. There is a need for standardized guidelines in order to protect the integrity of scientific output as GAI continues to grow in popularity. Automatic hate speech detection using deep neural models is hampered by the scarcity of labeled datasets, leading to poor generalization. To mitigate this problem, generative AI has been utilized to generate large amounts of synthetic hate speech sequences from available labeled examples, leveraging the generated data in finetuning large pre-trained language models (LLMs). In this chapter, we provide a review of relevant methods, experimental setups and evaluation of this approach. In addition to general LLMs, such as BERT, RoBERTa and ALBERT, we apply and evaluate the impact of train set augmentation with generated data using LLMs that have been already adapted for hate detection, including RoBERTa-Toxicity, HateBERT, HateXplain, ToxDect, and ToxiGen. An empirical study corroborates our previous findings, showing that this approach improves hate speech generalization, boosting recall performance across data distributions. In addition, we explore and compare the performance of the finetuned LLMs with zero-shot hate detection using a GPT-3.5 model. Our results demonstrate that while better generalization is achieved using the GPT-3.5 model, it achieves mediocre recall and low precision on most datasets. It is an open question whether the sensitivity of models such as GPT-3.5, and onward, can be improved using similar techniques of text generation. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) and large language models (LLMs) are poised to significantly impact social work research. These technologies can produce high-quality written materials and support qualitative and quantitative data analysis with simple, plain-language prompts from users. However, they also introduce challenges, such as potential bias, data privacy concerns, and generation of misinformation. In this paper, we use a disruptive–disrupting framework to discuss the dual nature of generative AI and LLMs and offer recommendations for social work researchers and journal editors that include guidance around data collection, analysis, interpretation, and dissemination. Researchers must use great caution when deploying generative AI technologies, meticulously examining, verifying, and taking accountability for the text and analyses produced by these instruments. Likewise, journal editors will need to implement quality control procedures and ethical standards to guide and evaluate the use of these technologies in social work research. We consider the recommendations offered here as a point of departure for disciplinary conversations about the role of generative AI and LLMs in social work research. This keynote discusses the opportunities and challenges of using Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI) and Large Language Models (LLMs) as tools for developing interactive systems. We will look at different stages in the development lifecycle of interactive systems and assess the value of AI support. We explore how GenAI and LLMs can potentially speed-up the ideation, requirements elicitation, architecture development, prototyping, implementation, and testing of interactive systems. The talk will outline emerging practices, such as the use of prompts for code and system generation, to facilitate prototyping and accelerate implementation. We will outline fundamental challenges and suggest emerging research directions, and pose research questions. What will software development tools look like in the future? How can we efficiently use AI to develop interactive systems without compromising quality? We also speculate about the implications of these developments for researchers, practitioners, and society. We believe that it will massively accelerate the digital transformation. Interactive AI-based tools for systems and software development will become a major research direction. Health disparities are differences in health outcomes and access to healthcare between different groups, including racial and ethnic minorities, low-income people, and rural residents. An artificial intelligence (AI) program called large language models (LLMs) can understand and generate human language, improving health communication and reducing health disparities. There are many challenges in using LLMs in human-doctor interaction, including the need for diverse and representative data, privacy concerns, and collaboration between healthcare providers and technology experts. We introduce the comparative investigation of domain-specific large language models such as SciBERT with a multi-purpose LLMs BERT. We used cosine similarity to analyze text queries about health disparities in exam rooms when factors such as race are used alone. Using text queries, SciBERT fails when it doesn't differentiate between queries text:"race"alone and"perpetuates health disparities."We believe clinicians can use generative AI to create a draft response when communicating asynchronously with patients. However, careful attention must be paid to ensure they are developed and implemented ethically and equitably. This paper presents our submission to the Financial Narrative Summarization (FNS) task at the FNP-2023 workshop. The FNS task involves the generation of concise summaries, not exceeding 1000 words, for annual financial reports composed in English, Spanish, and Greek. In our prior work, presented in FNP-2022, we introduced DiMSum [1], a novel framework designed to automatically identify crucial narrative sections within financial reports and quantify their weighted contributions. The field of Generative AI and Large Language Models (LLMs) has recently witnessed significant advancements, prompting us to explore their utility in summarizing financial reports. Our investigation revealed that LLMs, when left to their own devices often struggle to effectively summarize complex financial documents, necessitating external guidance. In this study, we demonstrate how LLMs, when guided by the DiMSum framework, exhibit substantial improvements in the quality of financial report summarization. To the best of our knowledge, this research marks the first instance of applying LLMs to the FNS task, offering a novel approach to enhancing the summarization of financial reports. The recent advancements in Generative AI have been highlighted by the emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) like ChatGPT. We track this evolution from the initial recurrent neural networks to the development of architectures like Transformers and Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPT). ChatGPT, with its impressive ability to comprehend, process, and produce natural language, has piqued the interest of educators, students, and institutions within the education sector through its creation of high-quality textual responses.This marks the beginning of a new era in educational possibilities: we emphasize the beneficial effects of ChatGPT in learning environments, noting its utility in programming assistance, its clarity in concept explanation, and its role in enhancing automated learning processes. We also recognize potential drawbacks, including the risks of over-reliance, plagiarism, and the inherent constraints of these models in tackling mathematical and linguistic problem-solving tasks.In exploring the Paradox of Automation, we examine the implications of an over-reliance on AI in education. We seek to understand the importance of preserving critical thinking skills and ensuring that technology serves as a tool for augmenting human capabilities rather than supplanting them. Our analysis acknowledges that, while AI, including ChatGPT, can assist in content generation and problem-solving, it is essential for students to cultivate their abilities in analytical thinking, content verification, and error correction. Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) is dramatically changing the way people work in many industries, including academia. Beyond its use for teaching, generative AI can also have a major impact on accelerating research processes. For example, generative AI can facilitate the identification of relevant articles when conducting a systematic literature review (SLR). This article compares six AIs (Forefront, GetGPT, ThebAI, Claude, Bard, and H2O) with their respective large language models (LLMs) when classifying 596 articles in the screening phase of an SLR. This SLR is aimed at exploring the development of non-technical skills with the support of technology in the field of medical education. Forefront with the LLM GPT-4 was the AI that obtained better results. The impact of this research is expected to contribute towards automating some of the phases of SRLs. Nevertheless, it is important to keep in mind limitations associated with the technology used to support this research, such as the rapid changes that AIs and their LLMs are currently undergoing, or potential restrictions on the number of requests per minute that AIs can receive as well as restrictions on the geographical location (since not all these AIs are available in all countries). Abstract The introduction of ChatGPT has fuelled a public debate on the appropriateness of using Generative AI (large language models; LLMs) in work, including a debate on how they might be used (and abused) by researchers. In the current work, we test whether delegating parts of the research process to LLMs leads people to distrust researchers and devalues their scientific work. Participants (N = 402) considered a researcher who delegates elements of the research process to a PhD student or LLM and rated three aspects of such delegation. Firstly, they rated whether it is morally appropriate to do so. Secondly, they judged whether—after deciding to delegate the research process—they would trust the scientist (that decided to delegate) to oversee future projects. Thirdly, they rated the expected accuracy and quality of the output from the delegated research process. Our results show that people judged delegating to an LLM as less morally acceptable than delegating to a human (d = –0.78). Delegation to an LLM also decreased trust to oversee future research projects (d = –0.80), and people thought the results would be less accurate and of lower quality (d = −0.85). We discuss how this devaluation might transfer into the underreporting of Generative AI use. The introduction of ChatGPT has fuelled a public debate on the use of generative AI (large language models; LLMs), including its use by researchers. In the current work, we test whether delegating parts of the research process to LLMs leads people to distrust and devalue researchers and scientific output. Participants (N=402) considered a researcher who delegates elements of the research process to a PhD student or LLM, and rated (1) moral acceptability, (2) trust in the scientist to oversee future projects, and (3) the accuracy and quality of the output. People judged delegating to an LLM as less acceptable than delegating to a human (d = -0.78). Delegation to an LLM also decreased trust to oversee future research projects (d = -0.80), and people thought the results would be less accurate and of lower quality (d = -0.85). We discuss how this devaluation might transfer into the underreporting of generative AI use. Keeping up with technological innovations and the debates surrounding their influence on our lives is proving to be extremely challenging for citizens, executives, regulators and even tech experts. Generative AI has ushered in a new era where the creation and dissemination of nearly infinite content has become a tangible reality. Tools like large language models (LLMs), such as GPT-4, and text-to-image models, such as Stable Diffusion, have sparked global discussions from Washington to Brussels and Beijing. Generative AI has significantly reduced the entry barrier to the domain of AI owing to the ease of use and core capabilities of automation, translation, and intelligent actions in our day to day lives. Currently, Large language models (LLMs) that power such chatbots are being utilized primarily for their automation capabilities for software monitoring, report generation etc. and for specific personalized question answering capabilities, on a limited scope and scale. One major limitation of the currently evolving family of LLMs is 'hallucinations', wherein inaccurate responses are reported as factual. Hallucinations are primarily caused by biased training data, ambiguous prompts and inaccurate LLM parameters, and they majorly occur while combining mathematical facts with language-based context. Thus, monitoring and controlling for hallucinations becomes necessary when designing solutions that are meant for decision makers. In this work we present the three major stages in the journey of designing hallucination-minimized LLM-based solutions that are specialized for the decision makers of the financial domain, namely: prototyping, scaling and LLM evolution using human feedback. These three stages and the novel data to answer generation modules presented in this work are necessary to ensure that the Generative AI chatbots, autonomous reports and alerts are reliable and high-quality to aid key decision-making processes. Introduction Generative artificial intelligence (AI) is impacting many aspects of the business community. ChatGPT and other similar large language models (LLMs) have captured attention for their amazing ability to create human-like prose.1,2 Additionally, generative AI can create visually captivating artistic content, encompassing images, videos, and audio. Langevin diffusion deep learning models are primarily employed to generate this content, with open-source image generation models, such as Stable Diffusion, being the most popular approach.3 Recent advances in machine learning have made revolutionary breakthroughs in computer games, image and natural language understanding, and scientific discovery. Foundation models and large-scale language models (LLMs) have recently achieved human-like intelligence thanks to BigData. With the help of self-supervised learning (SSL) and transfer learning, these models may potentially reshape the landscapes of neuroscience research and make a significant impact on the future. Here we present a mini-review on recent advances in foundation models and generative AI models as well as their applications in neuroscience, including natural language and speech, semantic memory, brain-machine interfaces (BMIs), and data augmentation. We argue that this paradigm-shift framework will open new avenues for many neuroscience research directions and discuss the accompanying challenges and opportunities. This position paper presents work in progress on the foundation of the not yet finalized AI Act and discusses whether the proposed AI Act has the resources to adequately identify and mitigate the risks posed by generative AI models like LLMs. All the details of AI Act are not yet decided but after the EU Council reached a consensus on a revised version of proposal issued by the Commission, the main principles of this risk-based model of regulation are in place. We argue that the methods for risk identification and mitigation in the act, while adequate to the management of many risks emerging from the use of AI systems, are not suitable for the management of all risks emerging from generative AI systems like LLMs We suggest the implementation of the Dual Use Research of Concern (DURC) framework, originally designed for life sciences, to the domain of generative AI, with a specific focus on Large Language Models (LLMs). With its demonstrated advantages and drawbacks in biological research, we believe the DURC criteria can be effectively redefined for LLMs, potentially contributing to improved AI governance. Acknowledging the balance that must be struck when employing the DURC framework, we highlight its crucial political role in enhancing societal awareness of the impact of generative AI. As a final point, we offer a series of specific recommendations for applying the DURC approach to LLM research. The new generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools, and especially the large language models (LLMs) of which ChatGPT is the most prominent example, have the potential to transform many aspects of scholarly publishing. How the transformations will play out remains to be seen, both because the different parties involved in the production and publication of scholarly work are still learning about these tools and because the tools themselves are still in development, but the tools have a vast range of potential uses. Authors are likely to use generative AI to conduct research, frame their thoughts, produce data, search for ways of articulating their thoughts, develop drafts, generate text, revise their writing, and create visuals. Peer reviewers might use AI to help them produce their reviews. Editors might use AI in the initial editorial screening of manuscripts, to locate reviewers, or for copyediting. We are editors of bioethics and humanities journals who have been contemplating the implications of this ongoing transformation. We believe that generative AI may pose a threat to the goals that animate our work but could also be valuable for achieving those goals. We do not pre-tend to have resolved the many social questions that we think generative AI raises for scholarly publishing, but in the interest of fostering a wider conversation about these questions, we have developed a preliminary set of recommendations about generative AI in scholarly publishing. We hope that the recommendations and rationales set out here will help the scholarly community navigate toward a deeper understanding of the strengths, limits, and challenges of AI for responsible scholarly work. The continued success of Large Language Models (LLMs) and other generative artificial intelligence approaches highlights the advantages that large information corpora can have over rigidly defined symbolic models, but also serves as a proof-point of the challenges that purely statistics-based approaches have in terms of safety and trustworthiness. As a framework for contextualizing the potential, as well as the limitations of LLMs and other foundation model-based technologies, we propose the concept of a Large Process Model (LPM) that combines the correlation power of LLMs with the analytical precision and reliability of knowledge-based systems and automated reasoning approaches. LPMs are envisioned to directly utilize the wealth of process management experience that experts have accumulated, as well as process performance data of organizations with diverse characteristics, e.g., regarding size, region, or industry. In this vision, the proposed LPM would allow organizations to receive context-specific (tailored) process and other business models, analytical deep-dives, and improvement recommendations. As such, they would allow to substantially decrease the time and effort required for business transformation, while also allowing for deeper, more impactful, and more actionable insights than previously possible. We argue that implementing an LPM is feasible, but also highlight limitations and research challenges that need to be solved to implement particular aspects of the LPM vision. Background The increasing application of generative artificial intelligence large language models (LLMs) in various fields, including dentistry, raises questions about their accuracy. Objective This study aims to comparatively evaluate the answers provided by 4 LLMs, namely Bard (Google LLC), ChatGPT-3.5 and ChatGPT-4 (OpenAI), and Bing Chat (Microsoft Corp), to clinically relevant questions from the field of dentistry. Methods The LLMs were queried with 20 open-type, clinical dentistry–related questions from different disciplines, developed by the respective faculty of the School of Dentistry, European University Cyprus. The LLMs’ answers were graded 0 (minimum) to 10 (maximum) points against strong, traditionally collected scientific evidence, such as guidelines and consensus statements, using a rubric, as if they were examination questions posed to students, by 2 experienced faculty members. The scores were statistically compared to identify the best-performing model using the Friedman and Wilcoxon tests. Moreover, the evaluators were asked to provide a qualitative evaluation of the comprehensiveness, scientific accuracy, clarity, and relevance of the LLMs’ answers. Results Overall, no statistically significant difference was detected between the scores given by the 2 evaluators; therefore, an average score was computed for every LLM. Although ChatGPT-4 statistically outperformed ChatGPT-3.5 (P=.008), Bing Chat (P=.049), and Bard (P=.045), all models occasionally exhibited inaccuracies, generality, outdated content, and a lack of source references. The evaluators noted instances where the LLMs delivered irrelevant information, vague answers, or information that was not fully accurate. Conclusions This study demonstrates that although LLMs hold promising potential as an aid in the implementation of evidence-based dentistry, their current limitations can lead to potentially harmful health care decisions if not used judiciously. Therefore, these tools should not replace the dentist’s critical thinking and in-depth understanding of the subject matter. Further research, clinical validation, and model improvements are necessary for these tools to be fully integrated into dental practice. Dental practitioners must be aware of the limitations of LLMs, as their imprudent use could potentially impact patient care. Regulatory measures should be established to oversee the use of these evolving technologies. Foundation models, such as large language models (LLMs), have been widely recognised as transformative AI technologies due to their capabilities to understand and generate content, including plans with reasoning capabilities. Foundation model based agents derive their autonomy from the capabilities of foundation models, which enable them to autonomously break down a given goal into a set of manageable tasks and orchestrate task execution to meet the goal. Despite the huge efforts put into building foundation model based agents, the architecture design of the agents has not yet been systematically explored. Also, while there are significant benefits of using agents for planning and execution, there are serious considerations regarding responsible AI related software quality attributes, such as security and accountability. Therefore, this paper presents a pattern-oriented reference architecture that serves as guidance when designing foundation model based agents. We evaluate the completeness and utility of the proposed reference architecture by mapping it to the architecture of two real-world agents. Cohen (2023), Rahimzadeh and colleagues (2023), and Porsdam Mann and colleagues (2023) have written thorough and well-canvassed pieces about the ethical and conceptual challenges of large language models of artificial intelligence (LLMs) that currently confront bioethicists. A common thread running through these articles is what LLMs might mean for scholarship in bioethics, and the impact of this implication (and what the implication might imply for philosophical bioethics) is an issue worth examining specifically. Cohen (2023) focuses primarily upon the use of ChatGPT in clinical medicine. The ways in which health care is delivered will change in the light of AI input, and this change is perhaps one of the crucial issues that bioethics should focus on. When explaining the way in which LLMs work, Cohen notes that ChatGPT is autoregressive (meaning that it uses information from the past). He remarks, Generative models (foundation models) such as LLMs (large language models) are having a large impact on multiple fields. In this work, we propose the use of such models for business decision making. In particular, we combine unstructured textual data sources (e.g., news data) with multiple foundation models (namely, GPT4, transformer-based Named Entity Recognition (NER) models and Entailment-based Zero-shot Classifiers (ZSC)) to derive IT (information technology) artifacts in the form of a (sequence of) signed business networks. We posit that such artifacts can inform business stakeholders about the state of the market and their own positioning as well as provide quantitative insights into improving their future outlook. We present a framework for the automated measurement of responsible AI (RAI) metrics for large language models (LLMs) and associated products and services. Our framework for automatically measuring harms from LLMs builds on existing technical and sociotechnical expertise and leverages the capabilities of state-of-the-art LLMs, such as GPT-4. We use this framework to run through several case studies investigating how different LLMs may violate a range of RAI-related principles. The framework may be employed alongside domain-specific sociotechnical expertise to create measurements for new harm areas in the future. By implementing this framework, we aim to enable more advanced harm measurement efforts and further the responsible use of LLMs. Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) can be seen as a double-edged weapon in education. Indeed, it may provide personalized, interactive and empowering pedagogical sequences that could favor students' intrinsic motivation, active engagement and help them have more control over their learning. But at the same time, other GAI properties such as the lack of uncertainty signalling even in cases of failure (particularly with Large Language Models (LLMs)) could lead to opposite effects, e.g. over-estimation of one's own competencies, passiveness, loss of curious and critical-thinking sense, etc. These negative effects are due in particular to the lack of a pedagogical stance in these models' behaviors. Indeed, as opposed to standard pedagogical activities, GAI systems are often designed to answers users' inquiries easily and conveniently, without asking them to make an effort, and without focusing on their learning process and/or outcomes. This article starts by outlining some of these opportunities and challenges surrounding the use of GAI in education, with a focus on the effects on students' active learning strategies and related metacognitive skills. Then, we present a framework for introducing pedagogical transparency in GAI-based educational applications. This framework presents 1) training methods to include pedagogical principles in the models, 2) methods to ensure controlled and pedagogically-relevant interactions when designing activities with GAI and 3) educational methods enabling students to acquire the relevant skills to properly benefit from the use of GAI in their learning activities (meta-cognitive skills, GAI litteracy). The First Workshop on Personalized Generative AI1 aims to be a cornerstone event fostering innovation and collaboration in the dynamic field of personalized AI. Leveraging the potent capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) to enhance user experiences with tailored responses and recommendations, the workshop is designed to address a range of pressing challenges including knowledge gap bridging, hallucination mitigation, and efficiency optimization in handling extensive user profiles. As a nexus for academics and industry professionals, the event promises rich discussions on a plethora of topics such as the development and fine-tuning of foundational models, strategies for multi-modal personalization, and the imperative ethical and privacy considerations in LLM deployment. Through a curated series of keynote speeches, insightful panel discussions, and hands-on sessions, the workshop aspires to be a catalyst in the development of more precise, contextually relevant, and user-centric AI systems. It aims to foster a landscape where generative AI systems are not only responsive but also anticipatory of individual user needs, marking a significant stride in personalized experiences. While the explosion in the capabilities of generative artificial intelligence (AI) and the associated benefits has received a tremendous amount of attention, both in the technology world and popular press, so has the unprecedented amount of compute and energy required to train and serve these extremely complex models. Many of these concerns are well founded given the hundreds of megawatthours required to train large language models (LLMs). However, our contention is that history and recent developments indicate that our industry’s ability to innovate is up to the task of delivering the benefits of LLMs while reining in energy use. This paper will review some of that history and the approaches that are likely to provide the required efficiency gains. Artificial Intelligence (AI) has revolutionized the way we interact with technology. One of its forefronts is Natural Language Processing (NLP), an essential sub-field that focuses on human language understanding and generation. Large Language Models (LLMs) such as PaLM, BERT, GPT have emerged as the powerhouses of NLPs with remarkable capabilities. Today, we also utilize AI in other industries like automotive. While using AI-backed powerful instruments in autonomous vehicle technologies, we are still suffering to create virtual traffic scenarios for special purposes such as safety testing and validation, autonomous driver training and regulatory compliance. In this study, we introduce a solution which harnesses the power of LLMs to overcome scenario creation difficulties. Thus, our approach provides creation of the traffic scenarios in linguistic way rather than using user interfaces of the editors or writing special formatted structured scenario files. This paper aims to introduce and analyze the Viz system in a comprehensive way, a novel system architecture that integrates Quantized Low-Rank Adapters (QLoRA) to fine-tune large language models (LLM) within a legally compliant and resource efficient marketplace. Viz represents a significant contribution to the field of artificial intelligence, particularly in addressing the challenges of computational efficiency, legal compliance, and economic sustainability in the utilization and monetization of LLMs. The paper delineates the scholarly discourse and developments that have informed the creation of Viz, focusing primarily on the advancements in LLM models, copyright issues in AI training (NYT case, 2023), and the evolution of model fine-tuning techniques, particularly low-rank adapters and quantized low-rank adapters, to create a sustainable and economically compliant framework for LLM utilization. The economic model it proposes benefits content creators, AI developers, and end-users, delineating a harmonious integration of technology, economy, and law, offering a comprehensive solution to the complex challenges of today's AI landscape. With the rapid advancement of technology and the expansion of available data, AI has permeated many aspects of people's lives. Large Language Models(LLMs) such as ChatGPT are increasing the accuracy of their response and achieving a high level of communication with humans. These AIs can be used in business to benefit, for example, customer support and documentation tasks, allowing companies to respond to customer inquiries efficiently and consistently. In addition, AI can generate digital content, including texts, images, and a wide range of digital materials based on the training data, and is expected to be used in business. However, the widespread use of AI also raises ethical concerns. The potential for unintentional bias, discrimination, and privacy and security implications must be carefully considered. Therefore, While AI can improve our lives, it has the potential to exacerbate social inequalities and injustices. This paper aims to explore the unintended outputs of AI and assess their impact on society. Developers and users can take appropriate precautions by identifying the potential for unintended output. Such experiments are essential to efforts to minimize the potential negative social impacts of AI transparency, accountability, and use. We will also discuss social and ethical aspects with the aim of finding sustainable solutions regarding AI. In today's digital world, Generative Artificial Intelligence (GenAI) such as Large Language Models (LLMs) is becoming increasingly prevalent, extending its reach across diverse applications. This surge in adoption has sparked a significant increase in demand for data-centric GenAI models, highlighting the necessity for robust data communication infrastructures. Central to this need are message brokers, which serve as essential channels for data transfer within various system components. This survey aims to delve into a comprehensive analysis of traditional and modern message brokers, offering a comparative study of prevalent platforms. Our study considers numerous criteria including, but not limited to, open-source availability, integrated monitoring tools, message prioritization mechanisms, capabilities for parallel processing, reliability, distribution and clustering functionalities, authentication processes, data persistence strategies, fault tolerance, and scalability. Furthermore, we explore the intrinsic constraints that the design and operation of each message broker might impose, recognizing that these limitations are crucial in understanding their real-world applicability. Finally, this study examines the enhancement of message broker mechanisms specifically for GenAI contexts, emphasizing the criticality of developing a versatile message broker framework. Such a framework would be poised for quick adaptation, catering to the dynamic and growing demands of GenAI in the foreseeable future. Through this dual-pronged approach, we intend to contribute a foundational compendium that can guide future innovations and infrastructural advancements in the realm of GenAI data communication. The migration and reengineering of existing variants into a software product line (SPL) is an error-prone and time-consuming activity. Many extractive approaches have been proposed, spanning different activities from feature identification and naming to the synthesis of reusable artefacts. In this paper, we explore how large language model (LLM)-based assistants can support domain analysts and developers. We revisit four illustrative cases of the literature where the challenge is to migrate variants written in different formalism (UML class diagrams, Java, GraphML, statecharts). We systematically report on our experience with ChatGPT-4, describing our strategy to prompt LLMs and documenting positive aspects but also failures. We compare the use of LLMs with state-of-the-art approach, BUT4Reuse. While LLMs offer potential in assisting domain analysts and developers in transitioning software variants into SPLs, their intrinsic stochastic nature and restricted ability to manage large variants or complex structures necessitate a semiautomatic approach, complete with careful review, to counteract inaccuracies. Background Patients with rare and complex diseases often experience delayed diagnoses and misdiagnoses because comprehensive knowledge about these diseases is limited to only a few medical experts. In this context, large language models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful knowledge aggregation tools with applications in clinical decision support and education domains. Objective This study aims to explore the potential of 3 popular LLMs, namely Bard (Google LLC), ChatGPT-3.5 (OpenAI), and GPT-4 (OpenAI), in medical education to enhance the diagnosis of rare and complex diseases while investigating the impact of prompt engineering on their performance. Methods We conducted experiments on publicly available complex and rare cases to achieve these objectives. We implemented various prompt strategies to evaluate the performance of these models using both open-ended and multiple-choice prompts. In addition, we used a majority voting strategy to leverage diverse reasoning paths within language models, aiming to enhance their reliability. Furthermore, we compared their performance with the performance of human respondents and MedAlpaca, a generative LLM specifically designed for medical tasks. Results Notably, all LLMs outperformed the average human consensus and MedAlpaca, with a minimum margin of 5% and 13%, respectively, across all 30 cases from the diagnostic case challenge collection. On the frequently misdiagnosed cases category, Bard tied with MedAlpaca but surpassed the human average consensus by 14%, whereas GPT-4 and ChatGPT-3.5 outperformed MedAlpaca and the human respondents on the moderately often misdiagnosed cases category with minimum accuracy scores of 28% and 11%, respectively. The majority voting strategy, particularly with GPT-4, demonstrated the highest overall score across all cases from the diagnostic complex case collection, surpassing that of other LLMs. On the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care-III data sets, Bard and GPT-4 achieved the highest diagnostic accuracy scores, with multiple-choice prompts scoring 93%, whereas ChatGPT-3.5 and MedAlpaca scored 73% and 47%, respectively. Furthermore, our results demonstrate that there is no one-size-fits-all prompting approach for improving the performance of LLMs and that a single strategy does not universally apply to all LLMs. Conclusions Our findings shed light on the diagnostic capabilities of LLMs and the challenges associated with identifying an optimal prompting strategy that aligns with each language model’s characteristics and specific task requirements. The significance of prompt engineering is highlighted, providing valuable insights for researchers and practitioners who use these language models for medical training. Furthermore, this study represents a crucial step toward understanding how LLMs can enhance diagnostic reasoning in rare and complex medical cases, paving the way for developing effective educational tools and accurate diagnostic aids to improve patient care and outcomes. Generating unit tests is a crucial task in software development, demanding substantial time and effort from programmers. The advent of Large Language Models (LLMs) introduces a novel avenue for unit test script generation. This research aims to experimentally investigate the effectiveness of LLMs, specifically exemplified by ChatGPT, for generating unit test scripts for Python programs, and how the generated test cases compare with those generated by an existing unit test generator (Pynguin). For experiments, we consider three types of code units: 1) Procedural scripts, 2) Function-based modular code, and 3) Class-based code. The generated test cases are evaluated based on criteria such as coverage, correctness, and readability. Our results show that ChatGPT's performance is comparable with Pynguin in terms of coverage, though for some cases its performance is superior to Pynguin. We also find that about a third of assertions generated by ChatGPT for some categories were incorrect. Our results also show that there is minimal overlap in missed statements between ChatGPT and Pynguin, thus, suggesting that a combination of both tools may enhance unit test generation performance. Finally, in our experiments, prompt engineering improved ChatGPT's performance, achieving a much higher coverage. With the rise of Large Language Models (LLMs), notably characterized by GPT frameworks, there emerges a catalyst for novel healthcare applications. Earlier iterations of chatbot caregivers, though existent, have yet to achieve a dimension of human-like authenticity. This paper unveils `MemoryCompanion' a pioneering digital health solution explicitly tailored for Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and their caregivers. Drawing upon the nuances of GPT technology and prompt engineering, MemoryCompanion manifests a personalized caregiving paradigm, fostering interactions via voice-cloning and talking-face mechanisms that resonate with the familiarity of known companions. Using advanced prompt-engineering, the system intricately adapts to each patient's distinct profile, curating its content and communication style accordingly. This approach strives to counteract prevalent issues of social isolation and loneliness frequently observed in AD demographics. Our methodology, grounded in its innovative design, addresses both the caregiving and technological challenges intrinsic to this domain. Large language models (LLMs) have triggered tremendous success to empower our daily life by generative information. The personalization of LLMs could further contribute to their applications due to better alignment with human intents. Towards personalized generative services, a collaborative cloud-edge methodology is promising, as it facilitates the effective orchestration of heterogeneous distributed communication and computing resources. In this article, we put forward NetGPT to capably synergize appropriate LLMs at the edge and the cloud based on their computing capacity. In addition, edge LLMs could efficiently leverage location-based information for personalized prompt completion, thus benefiting the interaction with the cloud LLM. In particular, we present the feasibility of NetGPT by leveraging low-rank adaptation-based fine-tuning of open-source LLMs (i.e., GPT-2-base model and LLaMA model), and conduct comprehensive numerical comparisons with alternative cloud-edge collaboration or cloud-only techniques, so as to demonstrate the superiority of NetGPT. Subsequently, we highlight the essential changes required for an artificial intelligence (AI)-native network architecture towards NetGPT, with emphasis on deeper integration of communications and computing resources and careful calibration of logical AI workflow. Furthermore, we demonstrate several benefits of NetGPT, which come as by-products, as the edge LLMs' capability to predict trends and infer intents promises a unified solution for intelligent network management&orchestration. We argue that NetGPT is a promising AI-native network architecture for provisioning beyond personalized generative services. Large Language Models (LLMs) now excel at generative skills and can create content at impeccable speeds. However, they are imperfect and still make various mistakes. In a Computer Science education context, as these models are widely recognized as"AI pair programmers,"it becomes increasingly important to train students on evaluating and debugging the LLM-generated code. In this work, we introduce HypoCompass, a novel system to facilitate deliberate practice on debugging, where human novices play the role of Teaching Assistants and help LLM-powered teachable agents debug code. We enable effective task delegation between students and LLMs in this learning-by-teaching environment: students focus on hypothesizing the cause of code errors, while adjacent skills like code completion are offloaded to LLM-agents. Our evaluations demonstrate that HypoCompass generates high-quality training materials (e.g., bugs and fixes), outperforming human counterparts fourfold in efficiency, and significantly improves student performance on debugging by 12% in the pre-to-post test. As advances in large language models (LLMs) and multimodal techniques continue to mature, the development of general-purpose multimodal large language models (MLLMs) has surged, offering significant applications in interpreting natural images. However, the field of pathology has largely remained untapped, particularly in gathering high-quality data and designing comprehensive model frameworks. To bridge the gap in pathology MLLMs, we present PathAsst, a multimodal generative foundation AI assistant to revolutionize diagnostic and predictive analytics in pathology. The development of PathAsst involves three pivotal steps: data acquisition, CLIP model adaptation, and the training of PathAsst's multimodal generative capabilities. Firstly, we collect over 207K high-quality pathology image-text pairs from authoritative sources. Leveraging the advanced power of ChatGPT, we generate over 180K instruction-following samples. Furthermore, we devise additional instruction-following data specifically tailored for invoking eight pathology-specific sub-models we prepared, allowing the PathAsst to effectively collaborate with these models, enhancing its diagnostic ability. Secondly, by leveraging the collected data, we construct PathCLIP, a pathology-dedicated CLIP, to enhance PathAsst's capabilities in interpreting pathology images. Finally, we integrate PathCLIP with the Vicuna-13b and utilize pathology-specific instruction-tuning data to enhance the multimodal generation capacity of PathAsst and bolster its synergistic interactions with sub-models. The experimental results of PathAsst show the potential of harnessing AI-powered generative foundation model to improve pathology diagnosis and treatment processes. We open-source our dataset, as well as a comprehensive toolkit for extensive pathology data collection and preprocessing at https://github.com/superjamessyx/Generative-Foundation-AI-Assistant-for-Pathology. While there is significant interest in using generative AI tools as general-purpose models for specific ML applications, discriminative models are much more widely deployed currently. One of the key shortcomings of these discriminative AI tools that have been already deployed is that they are not adaptable and user-friendly compared to generative AI tools (e.g., GPT4, Stable Diffusion, Bard, etc.), where a non-expert user can iteratively refine model inputs and give real-time feedback that can be accounted for immediately, allowing users to build trust from the start. Inspired by this emerging collaborative workflow, we develop a new system architecture that enables users to work with discriminative models (such as for object detection, sentiment classification, etc.) in a fashion similar to generative AI tools, where they can easily provide immediate feedback as well as adapt the deployed models as desired. Our approach has implications on improving trust, user-friendliness, and adaptability of these versatile but traditional prediction models. This paper presents a novel approach to predicting esterification procedures in organic chemistry by employing generative large language models (LLMs) to interpret and translate SMILES molecular notation into detailed procedural texts of synthesis reactions. Esterification reaction is important in producing various industrial intermediates, fragrances, and flavors. Recognizing the challenges of accurate prediction in complex chemical landscapes, we have compiled and made publicly available a curated dataset of esterification reactions to enhance research collaboration. We systematically compare machine learning algorithms, ranging from the conventional k-nearest neighbors (kNN) to advanced sequence-to-sequence transformer models, including FLAN-T5 and ChatGPT-based variants. Our analysis highlights the FLAN-T5 model as the standout performer with a BLEU score of 51.82, suggesting that the model has significant potential in enhancing reaction planning and chemical synthesis. Our findings contribute to the growing field of AI in chemistry, offering a promising direction for enhancing the efficiency of reaction planning and chemical synthesis. This study examines 4-bit quantization methods like GPTQ in large language models (LLMs), highlighting GPTQ's overfitting and limited enhancement in Zero-Shot tasks. While prior works merely focusing on zero-shot measurement, we extend task scope to more generative categories such as code generation and abstractive summarization, in which we found that INT4 quantization can significantly underperform. However, simply shifting to higher precision formats like FP6 has been particularly challenging, thus overlooked, due to poor performance caused by the lack of sophisticated integration and system acceleration strategies on current AI hardware. Our results show that FP6, even with a coarse-grain quantization scheme, performs robustly across various algorithms and tasks, demonstrating its superiority in accuracy and versatility. Notably, with the FP6 quantization, \codestar-15B model performs comparably to its FP16 counterpart in code generation, and for smaller models like the 406M it closely matches their baselines in summarization. Neither can be achieved by INT4. To better accommodate various AI hardware and achieve the best system performance, we propose a novel 4+2 design for FP6 to achieve similar latency to the state-of-the-art INT4 fine-grain quantization. With our design, FP6 can become a promising solution to the current 4-bit quantization methods used in LLMs. Large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT have demonstrated unprecedented capabilities in multiple AI tasks. However, hardware inefficiencies have become a significant factor limiting the democratization of LLMs. We propose Chiplet Cloud, an ASIC supercomputer architecture that optimizes total cost of ownership (TCO) per token for serving generative LLMs. Chiplet Cloud fits all model parameters inside the on-chip SRAMs to eliminate bandwidth limitations while moderating the die size to improve system costs while leveraging software mappings to overcome data communication overhead. We propose a comprehensive design methodology that accurately explores a spectrum of major design trade-offs in the joint space of hardware-software and generates a detailed performance-cost analysis on all valid design points. We evaluate Chiplet Cloud on four popular LLMs. Compared to GPU and TPU, our architecture can achieve up to 94x and 15x improvement in TCO/Token respectively, significantly reducing the cost for realistically serving modern LLMs. 
 Generative algorithm-based conceptual design has been innovatively applied as an emerging digital design paradigm for early-stage design ideation. With powerful large language models (LLMs), designers can enter an initial prompt as a design requirement to generate using machine reasoning capability descriptive natural language content. The machine-generated output can be used as stimuli to inspire designers during design ideation. However, the lack of transparency and insufficient controllability of LLMs can limit their effectiveness when assisting humans on a generative conceptual design task. This generation process lacks theoretical guidance and a comprehensive understanding of design requirements, which may potentially lead to generated concepts that are mismatched or lack creativity. Inspired by the Function-Behavior-Structure (FBS) model, this paper proposes a task-decomposed AI-aided approach for generative conceptual design. We decompose a conceptual design task into three sub-tasks including functional reasoning, behavioral reasoning, and structural reasoning. Prompt templates and specification signifiers are specified for different steps to guide the LLMs to generate reasonable results, controllably. The output of each step becomes the input of the next, aiding in aggregating gains per step and embedding the selection preferences of human designers at each stage. A conceptual design experiment is conducted, and the results show that the conceptual design ideation with our method are more reasonable and creative in comparison to a baseline. —Large language models (LLMs) have triggered tremendous success to empower daily life by generative information, and the personalization of LLMs could further contribute to their applications due to better alignment with human intents. Towards personalized generative services, a collaborative cloud-edge methodology sounds promising, as it facilitates the effective orchestration of heterogeneous distributed communication and computing resources. In this article, after discussing the pros and cons of several candidate cloud-edge collaboration techniques, we put forward NetGPT to capably deploy appropriate LLMs at the edge and the cloud in accordance with their computing capacity. In addition, edge LLMs could efﬁciently leverage location-based information for personalized prompt completion, thus beneﬁting the interaction with cloud LLMs. After deploying representative open-source LLMs (e.g., GPT-2-base and LLaMA model) at the edge and the cloud, we present the feasibility of NetGPT on the basis of low-rank adaptation-based light-weight ﬁne-tuning. Subsequently, we highlight substantial essential changes required for a native artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) network architecture towards NetGPT, with special emphasis on deeper integration of communications and computing resources and careful calibration of logical AI workﬂow. Furthermore, we demonstrate several by-product beneﬁts of NetGPT, given edge LLM’s astonishing capability to predict trends and infer intents, which possibly leads to a uniﬁed solution for intelligent network management & orchestration. In a nutshell, we argue that NetGPT is a promising native-AI network architecture beyond provisioning personalized generative services. Spurred by the recent rapid increase in the development and distribution of large language models (LLMs) across industry and academia, much recent work has drawn attention to safety- and security-related threats and vulnerabilities of LLMs, including in the context of potentially criminal activities. Specifically, it has been shown that LLMs can be misused for fraud, impersonation, and the generation of malware; while other authors have considered the more general problem of AI alignment. It is important that developers and practitioners alike are aware of security-related problems with such models. In this paper, we provide an overview of existing - predominantly scientific - efforts on identifying and mitigating threats and vulnerabilities arising from LLMs. We present a taxonomy describing the relationship between threats caused by the generative capabilities of LLMs, prevention measures intended to address such threats, and vulnerabilities arising from imperfect prevention measures. With our work, we hope to raise awareness of the limitations of LLMs in light of such security concerns, among both experienced developers and novel users of such technologies. Quantifying the impact of training data points is crucial for understanding the outputs of machine learning models and for improving the transparency of the AI pipeline. The influence function is a principled and popular data attribution method, but its computational cost often makes it challenging to use. This issue becomes more pronounced in the setting of large language models and text-to-image models. In this work, we propose DataInf, an efficient influence approximation method that is practical for large-scale generative AI models. Leveraging an easy-to-compute closed-form expression, DataInf outperforms existing influence computation algorithms in terms of computational and memory efficiency. Our theoretical analysis shows that DataInf is particularly well-suited for parameter-efficient fine-tuning techniques such as LoRA. Through systematic empirical evaluations, we show that DataInf accurately approximates influence scores and is orders of magnitude faster than existing methods. In applications to RoBERTa-large, Llama-2-13B-chat, and stable-diffusion-v1.5 models, DataInf effectively identifies the most influential fine-tuning examples better than other approximate influence scores. Moreover, it can help to identify which data points are mislabeled. In November 2022, OpenAI publicly launched its large language model (LLM), ChatGPT, and reached the milestone of having over 100 million users in only 2 months. LLMs have been shown to be useful in a myriad of health care–related tasks and processes. In this paper, I argue that attention to, public access to, and debate about LLMs have initiated a wave of products and services using generative artificial intelligence (AI), which had previously found it hard to attract physicians. This paper describes what AI tools have become available since the beginning of the ChatGPT revolution and contemplates how it they might change physicians’ perceptions about this breakthrough technology. We evaluated the capability of a generative pre-trained transformer (GPT-4) to automatically generate high-quality learning objectives (LOs) in the context of a practically oriented university course on Artificial Intelligence. Discussions of opportunities (e.g., content generation, explanation) and risks (e.g., cheating) of this emerging technology in education have intensified, but to date there has not been a study of the models' capabilities in supporting the course design and authoring of LOs. LOs articulate the knowledge and skills learners are intended to acquire by engaging with a course. To be effective, LOs must focus on what students are intended to achieve, focus on specific cognitive processes, and be measurable. Thus, authoring high-quality LOs is a challenging and time consuming (i.e., expensive) effort. We evaluated 127 LOs that were automatically generated based on a carefully crafted prompt (detailed guidelines on high-quality LOs authoring) submitted to GPT-4 for conceptual modules and projects of an AI Practitioner course. We analyzed the generated LOs if they follow certain best practices such as beginning with action verbs from Bloom's taxonomy in regards to the level of sophistication intended. Our analysis showed that the generated LOs are sensible, properly expressed (e.g., starting with an action verb), and that they largely operate at the appropriate level of Bloom's taxonomy, respecting the different nature of the conceptual modules (lower levels) and projects (higher levels). Our results can be leveraged by instructors and curricular designers wishing to take advantage of the state-of-the-art generative models to support their curricular and course design efforts. The high computational and memory requirements of generative large language models (LLMs) make it challenging to serve them quickly and cheaply. This paper introduces SpecInfer, an LLM serving system that accelerates generative LLM inference with speculative inference and token tree veriﬁcation. A key insight behind SpecInfer is to combine various collectively boost-tuned small language models to jointly predict the LLM’s outputs; the predictions are organized as a token tree, whose nodes each represent a candidate token sequence. The correctness of all candidate token sequences represented by a token tree is veriﬁed by the LLM in parallel using a novel tree-based parallel decoding mechanism. SpecInfer uses an LLM as a token tree veriﬁer instead of an incremental decoder, which signiﬁcantly reduces the end-to-end latency and computational requirement for serving generative LLMs while provably preserving model quality. Culture fundamentally shapes people's reasoning, behavior, and communication. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) technologies may cause a shift towards a dominant culture. As people increasingly use AI to expedite and even automate various professional and personal tasks, cultural values embedded in AI models may bias authentic expression. We audit large language models for cultural bias, comparing their responses to nationally representative survey data, and evaluate country-specific prompting as a mitigation strategy. We find that GPT-4, 3.5 and 3 exhibit cultural values resembling English-speaking and Protestant European countries. Our mitigation strategy reduces cultural bias in recent models but not for all countries/territories. To avoid cultural bias in generative AI, especially in high-stakes contexts, we suggest using culture matching and ongoing cultural audits. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) refers to algorithms that can be used to create new content, such as text, code, images, videos, and audio. Particularly, with the introduction of generative adversarial networks (GAN) in medical imaging [1,2], generative AI has gained significant attention in the scientific community, leading to numerous publications in the past few years. The Korean Journal of Radiology (KJR) has published several articles on this topic [3-5]. However, the landscape of generative AI in scientific research and publication has dramatically shifted with the emergence of generative large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, which are capable of generating text that closely resembles human writing and easily accessible to the public. The use of LLMs is rapidly expanding in scientific publications [6], creating ethical and legal concerns and challenges related to research integrity, plagiarism, copyright infringement, and authorship, not only for authors, but also for peer reviewers and editors [7-9]. Moreover, these concerns and challenges Use of Generative Artificial Intelligence, Including Large Language Models Such as ChatGPT, in Scientific Publications: Policies of KJR and Prominent Authorities The evolution of Generative AI and the capabilities of the newly released Large Language Models (LLMs) open new opportunities in software engineering. However, they also lead to new challenges in cybersecurity. Recently, researchers have shown the possibilities of using LLMs such as ChatGPT to generate malicious content that can directly be exploited or guide inexperienced hackers to weaponize tools and code. These studies covered scenarios that still require the attacker to be in the middle of the loop. In this study, we leverage openly available plugins and use an LLM as proxy between the attacker and the victim. We deliver a proof-of-concept where ChatGPT is used for the dissemination of malicious software while evading detection, alongside establishing the communication to a command and control (C2) server to receive commands to interact with a victim's system. Finally, we present the general approach as well as essential elements in order to stay undetected and make the attack a success. This proof-of-concept highlights significant cybersecurity issues with openly available plugins and LLMs, which require the development of security guidelines, controls, and mitigation strategies. As Large Language Models (LLMs) and other forms of Generative AI permeate various aspects of our lives, their application for learning and education has provided opportunities and challenges. This paper presents an investigation into the use of LLMs in asynchronous course creation, particularly within the context of adult learning, training and upskilling. We developed a course prototype leveraging an LLM, implementing a robust human-in-the-loop process to ensure the accuracy and clarity of the generated content. Our research questions focus on the feasibility of LLMs to produce high-quality adult learning content with reduced human involvement. Initial findings indicate that taking this approach can indeed facilitate faster content creation without compromising on accuracy or clarity, marking a promising advancement in the field of Generative AI for education. Despite some limitations, the study underscores the potential of LLMs to transform the landscape of learning and education, necessitating further research and nuanced discussions about their strategic and ethical use in learning design. The rapidly evolving field of Robotic Process Automation (RPA) has made significant strides in automating repetitive processes, yet its effectiveness diminishes in scenarios requiring spontaneous or unpredictable tasks demanded by users. This paper introduces a novel approach, FlowMind, leveraging the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) such as Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT), to address this limitation and create an automatic workflow generation system. In FlowMind, we propose a generic prompt recipe for a lecture that helps ground LLM reasoning with reliable Application Programming Interfaces (APIs). With this, FlowMind not only mitigates the common issue of hallucinations in LLMs, but also eliminates direct interaction between LLMs and proprietary data or code, thus ensuring the integrity and confidentiality of information — a cornerstone in financial services. FlowMind further simplifies user interaction by presenting high-level descriptions of auto-generated workflows, enabling users to inspect and provide feedback effectively. We also introduce NCEN-QA, a new dataset in finance for benchmarking question-answering tasks from N-CEN reports on funds. We used NCEN-QA to evaluate the performance of workflows generated by FlowMind against baseline and ablation variants of FlowMind. We demonstrate the success of FlowMind, the importance of each component in the proposed lecture recipe, and the effectiveness of user interaction and feedback in FlowMind. The widespread of generative artificial intelligence has heightened concerns about the potential harms posed by AI-generated texts, primarily stemming from factoid, unfair, and toxic content. Previous researchers have invested much effort in assessing the harmlessness of generative language models. However, existing benchmarks are struggling in the era of large language models (LLMs), due to the stronger language generation and instruction following capabilities, as well as wider applications. In this paper, we propose FFT, a new benchmark with 2116 elaborated-designed instances, for LLM harmlessness evaluation with factuality, fairness, and toxicity. To investigate the potential harms of LLMs, we evaluate 9 representative LLMs covering various parameter scales, training stages, and creators. Experiments show that the harmlessness of LLMs is still under-satisfactory, and extensive analysis derives some insightful findings that could inspire future research for harmless LLM research. The landscape for building conversational interfaces (chatbots) has witnessed a paradigm shift with recent developments in generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) based Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT by OpenAI (GPT3.5 and GPT4), Google's Bard, Large Language Model Meta AI (LLaMA), among others. In this paper, we analyze capabilities and limitations of incorporating such models in conversational interfaces for the telecommunication domain, specifically for enterprise wireless products and services. Using Cradlepoint's publicly available data for our experiments, we present a comparative analysis of the responses from such models for multiple use-cases including domain adaptation for terminology and product taxonomy, context continuity, robustness to input perturbations and errors. We believe this evaluation would provide useful insights to data scientists engaged in building customized conversational interfaces for domain-specific requirements. The self-attention revolution allowed generative language models to scale and achieve increasingly impressive abilities. Such models - commonly referred to as Large Language Models (LLMs) - have recently gained prominence with the general public, thanks to conversational fine-tuning, putting their behavior in line with public expectations regarding AI. This prominence amplified prior concerns regarding the misuse of LLMs and led to the emergence of numerous tools to detect LLMs in the wild. Unfortunately, most such tools are critically flawed. While major publications in the LLM detectability field suggested that LLMs were easy to detect with fine-tuned autoencoders, the limitations of their results are easy to overlook. Specifically, they assumed publicly available generative models without fine-tunes or non-trivial prompts. While the importance of these assumptions has been demonstrated, until now, it remained unclear how well such detection could be countered. Here, we show that an attacker with access to such detectors' reference human texts and output not only evades detection but can fully frustrate the detector training - with a reasonable budget and all its outputs labeled as such. Achieving it required combining common"reinforcement from critic"loss function modification and AdamW optimizer, which led to surprisingly good fine-tuning generalization. Finally, we warn against the temptation to transpose the conclusions obtained in RNN-driven text GANs to LLMs due to their better representative ability. These results have critical implications for the detection and prevention of malicious use of generative language models, and we hope they will aid the designers of generative models and detectors. In this paper, we explore the potential of Large Language Models (LLMs) to reason about threats, generate information about tools, and automate cyber campaigns. We begin with a manual exploration of LLMs in supporting specific threat-related actions and decisions. We proceed by automating the decision process in a cyber campaign. We present prompt engineering approaches for a plan-act-report loop for one action of a threat campaign and and a prompt chaining design that directs the sequential decision process of a multi-action campaign. We assess the extent of LLM's cyber-specific knowledge w.r.t the short campaign we demonstrate and provide insights into prompt design for eliciting actionable responses. We discuss the potential impact of LLMs on the threat landscape and the ethical considerations of using LLMs for accelerating threat actor capabilities. We report a promising, yet concerning, application of generative AI to cyber threats. However, the LLM's capabilities to deal with more complex networks, sophisticated vulnerabilities, and the sensitivity of prompts are open questions. This research should spur deliberations over the inevitable advancements in LLM-supported cyber adversarial landscape. Education systems in developing countries have few resources to serve large, poor populations. How might generative AI integrate into classrooms? This paper introduces an AI chatbot designed to assist teachers in Sierra Leone with professional development to improve their instruction. We describe initial findings from early implementation across 122 schools and 193 teachers, and analyze its use with qualitative observations and by analyzing queries. Teachers use the system for lesson planning, classroom management, and subject matter. Usage is sustained over the school year, and a subset of teachers use the system more regularly. We draw conclusions from these findings about how generative AI systems can be integrated into school systems in low income countries. In the rapidly evolving landscape of artificial intelligence (AI), generative large language models (LLMs) stand at the forefront, revolutionizing how we interact with our data. However, the computational intensity and memory consumption of deploying these models present substantial challenges in terms of serving efficiency, particularly in scenarios demanding low latency and high throughput. This survey addresses the imperative need for efficient LLM serving methodologies from a machine learning system (MLSys) research perspective, standing at the crux of advanced AI innovations and practical system optimizations. We provide in-depth analysis, covering a spectrum of solutions, ranging from cutting-edge algorithmic modifications to groundbreaking changes in system designs. The survey aims to provide a comprehensive understanding of the current state and future directions in efficient LLM serving, offering valuable insights for researchers and practitioners in overcoming the barriers of effective LLM deployment, thereby reshaping the future of AI. In the rapidly evolving landscape of artificial intelligence (AI), generative large language models (LLMs) stand at the forefront, revolutionizing how we interact with our data. However, the computational intensity and memory consumption of deploying these models present substantial challenges in terms of serving efficiency, particularly in scenarios demanding low latency and high throughput. This survey addresses the imperative need for efficient LLM serving methodologies from a machine learning system (MLSys) research perspective, standing at the crux of advanced AI innovations and practical system optimizations. We provide in-depth analysis, covering a spectrum of solutions, ranging from cutting-edge algorithmic modifications to groundbreaking changes in system designs. The survey aims to provide a comprehensive understanding of the current state and future directions in efficient LLM serving, offering valuable insights for researchers and practitioners in overcoming the barriers of effective LLM deployment, thereby reshaping the future of AI. Recently, the different applications of the generative arti ﬁ cial intelligence (AI)-enabled ChatGPT have been increasing almost every day. In this direction, Wu and Zhang [1] published an article in this journal about ChatGPT ’ s applications and challenges in healthcare. Similarly, this journal illustrated ChatGPT ’ s application in drug discovery and development [2] . Both the articles are very timely. However, it is time to explore the other medical applications of ChatGPT or LLMs (large language models). Generative AI offers a transformative platform to the users. It denotes that deep learning (DL) models are capable of generating good-quality text dependent on the data using the trained model. Generative AI has thrived in the last few years to generate text and has been used for different purposes. However, This class of machine learning (ML) technologies can develop new content such as image, text, video, or music by exploring patterns from the existing data [3,4] . Recently, generative AI has created great hope for researchers and other stakeholders. After the release of ChatGPT, a generative AI-based chatbot powered by LLM, the users ’ hope has magni ﬁ ed. ChatGPT ’ s different uses have been explored in several areas, especially medical science. ChatGPT is OpenAI ’ s (San Francisco, USA) successful LLM product, and the present model is a free online version that belongs to the GPT-3.5 series. As reported by Brynjolfsson et al ., the GPT-3 model trains on 300 billion tokens and includes 175 billion parameters; and therefore the GPT-3 model can yield about $5 million in computing costs alone. Similarly, the GPT-4 model is trained on 13 trillion tokens and includes ~1.8 trillion parameters. It can generate a computing-only cost of $65 The adoption of pre-trained large language models (LLMs), like ChatGPT, across an increasingly diverse range of tasks and domains poses significant challenges for authorial attribution and other basic knowledge organization practices. This paper examines the theoretical and practical issues introduced by LLMs and describes how their use erodes the supposedly firm boundaries separating specific works and creators. Building upon the author-as-node framework proposed by Soos and Leazer (2020), we compare works created with and without the use of LLMs; ultimately, we argue that the issues associated with these novel tools are indicative of preexisting limitations within standard entity-relationship models. As the growing popularity of generative AI raises concerns about plagiarism, academic integrity, and intellectual property, we encourage a reevaluation of reductive work/creator associations and advocate for the adoption of a more expansive approach to authorship. Generative artificial intelligence (AI), including large language models (LLMs), is poised to transform scientific research, enabling researchers to elevate their research productivity. This article presents a how-to guide for employing LLMs in academic settings, focusing on their unique strengths, constraints and implications through the lens of philosophy of science and epistemology. Using ChatGPT as a case study, I identify and elaborate on three attributes contributing to its effectiveness—intelligence, versatility and collaboration—accompanied by tips on crafting effective prompts, practical use cases and a living resource online (https://osf.io/8vpwu/). Next, I evaluate the limitations of generative AI and its implications for ethical use, equality and education. Regarding ethical and responsible use, I argue from technical and epistemic standpoints that there is no need to restrict the scope or nature of AI assistance, provided that its use is transparently disclosed. A pressing challenge, however, lies in detecting fake research, which can be mitigated by embracing open science practices, such as transparent peer review and sharing data, code and materials. Addressing equality, I contend that while generative AI may promote equality for some, it may simultaneously exacerbate disparities for others—an issue with potentially significant yet unclear ramifications as it unfolds. Lastly, I consider the implications for education, advocating for active engagement with LLMs and cultivating students' critical thinking and analytical skills. The how-to guide seeks to empower researchers with the knowledge and resources necessary to effectively harness generative AI while navigating the complex ethical dilemmas intrinsic to its application. Data is a cornerstone for fine-tuning large language models, yet acquiring suitable data remains challenging. Challenges encompassed data scarcity, linguistic diversity, and domain-specific content. This paper presents lessons learned while crawling and refining data tailored for fine-tuning Vietnamese language models. Crafting such a dataset, while accounting for linguistic intricacies and striking a balance between inclusivity and accuracy, demands meticulous planning. Our paper presents a multidimensional strategy including leveraging existing datasets in the English language and developing customized data-crawling scripts with the assistance of generative AI tools. A fine-tuned LLM model for the Vietnamese language, which was produced using resultant datasets, demonstrated good performance while generating Vietnamese news articles from prompts. The study offers practical solutions and guidance for future fine-tuning models in languages like Vietnamese. We introduce a system that allows users of Ableton Live to create MIDI-clips by naming them with musical descriptions. Users can compose by typing the desired musical content directly in Ableton's clip view, which is then inserted by our integrated system. This allows users to stay in the flow of their creative process while quickly generating musical ideas. The system works by prompting ChatGPT to reply using one of several text-based musical formats, such as ABC notation, chord symbols, or drum tablature. This is an important step in integrating generative AI tools into pre-existing musical workflows, and could be valuable for content makers who prefer to express their creative vision through descriptive language. Code is available at https://github.com/supersational/JAMMIN-GPT. With recent advancements in natural language processing, Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful tools for various real-world applications. Despite their prowess, the intrinsic generative abilities of LLMs may prove insufficient for handling complex tasks which necessitate a combination of task planning and the usage of external tools. In this paper, we first propose a structured framework tailored for LLM-based AI Agents and discuss the crucial capabilities necessary for tackling intricate problems. Within this framework, we design two distinct types of agents (i.e., one-step agent and sequential agent) to execute the inference process. Subsequently, we instantiate the framework using various LLMs and evaluate their Task Planning and Tool Usage (TPTU) abilities on typical tasks. By highlighting key findings and challenges, our goal is to provide a helpful resource for researchers and practitioners to leverage the power of LLMs in their AI applications. Our study emphasizes the substantial potential of these models, while also identifying areas that need more investigation and improvement. Summary Commercial applications of artificial intelligence (AI) in the form of Large Language Models (LLMs) and Generative AI have taken centre stage in the media sphere, business, public policy, and education. The ramifications for the field of child psychology and psychiatry are being debated and veer between LLMs as potential models for development and applications of generative AI becoming environmental factors for human development. This Editorial briefly discusses developmental research on generative AI and the potential impact generative AI on the hybrid social world in which young people grow up. We end by considering whether the implications justify increasing attention in our field. Recent innovations in generative large language models (LLMs) have made their applications and use-cases ubiquitous. This has led to large-scale deployments of these models, using complex, expensive, and power-hungry AI accelerators, most commonly GPUs. These developments make LLM inference efficiency an important challenge. Based on our extensive characterization, we find that there are two main phases during an LLM inference request: a compute-intensive prompt computation, and a memory-intensive token generation, each with distinct latency, throughput, memory, and power characteristics. Despite state-of-the-art batching and scheduling, the token generation phase underutilizes compute resources. Specifically, unlike compute-intensive prompt computation phases, token generation phases do not require the compute capability of the latest GPUs, and can be run with lower power and cost. With Splitwise, we propose splitting the two phases of a LLM inference request on to separate machines. This allows us to use hardware that is well-suited for each phase, and provision resources independently per phase. However, splitting an inference request across machines requires state transfer from the machine running prompt computation over to the machine generating tokens. We implement and optimize this state transfer using the fast back-plane interconnects available in today's GPU clusters. We use the Splitwise technique to design LLM inference clusters using the same or different types of machines for the prompt computation and token generation phases. Our clusters are optimized for three key objectives: throughput, cost, and power. In particular, we show that we can achieve 1.4x higher throughput at 20% lower cost than current designs. Alternatively, we can achieve 2.35x more throughput with the same cost and power budgets. The rapid development of online recruitment services has encouraged the utilization of recommender systems to streamline the job seeking process. Predominantly, current job recommendations deploy either collaborative filtering or person-job matching strategies. However, these models tend to operate as"black-box"systems and lack the capacity to offer explainable guidance to job seekers. Moreover, conventional matching-based recommendation methods are limited to retrieving and ranking existing jobs in the database, restricting their potential as comprehensive career AI advisors. To this end, here we present GIRL (GeneratIve job Recommendation based on Large language models), a novel approach inspired by recent advancements in the field of Large Language Models (LLMs). We initially employ a Supervised Fine-Tuning (SFT) strategy to instruct the LLM-based generator in crafting suitable Job Descriptions (JDs) based on the Curriculum Vitae (CV) of a job seeker. Moreover, we propose to train a model which can evaluate the matching degree between CVs and JDs as a reward model, and we use Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO)-based Reinforcement Learning (RL) method to further fine-tine the generator. This aligns the generator with recruiter feedback, tailoring the output to better meet employer preferences. In particular, GIRL serves as a job seeker-centric generative model, providing job suggestions without the need of a candidate set. This capability also enhances the performance of existing job recommendation models by supplementing job seeking features with generated content. With extensive experiments on a large-scale real-world dataset, we demonstrate the substantial effectiveness of our approach. We believe that GIRL introduces a paradigm-shifting approach to job recommendation systems, fostering a more personalized and comprehensive job-seeking experience. Abstract In anticipation of space exploration where astronauts are traveling away from Earth, and for longer durations with an increasing communication lag, artificial intelligence (AI) frameworks such as large language learning models (LLMs) that can be trained on Earth can provide real-time answers. This emerging technology may be helpful for acute medical emergencies, particularly in austere and distant space environments. In this manuscript, we provide an overview of generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) technology, a rapidly emerging AI technology, and implications, considerations, and limitations of such technology for space health. As large language models (LLMs) expand and become more advanced, so do the natural language processing capabilities of conversational AI, or “chatbots”. OpenAI's recent release, ChatGPT, uses a transformer-based model to enable human-like text generation and question-answering on general domain knowledge, while a healthcare-specific Large Language Model (LLM) such as GatorTron has focused on the real-world healthcare domain knowledge. As LLMs advance to achieve near human-level performances on medical question and answering benchmarks, it is probable that Conversational AI will soon be developed for use in healthcare. In this article we discuss the potential and compare the performance of two different approaches to generative pretrained transformers—ChatGPT, the most widely used general conversational LLM, and Foresight, a GPT (generative pretrained transformer) based model focused on modelling patients and disorders. The comparison is conducted on the task of forecasting relevant diagnoses based on clinical vignettes. We also discuss important considerations and limitations of transformer-based chatbots for clinical use. Recent advances in machine learning and AI, including Generative AI and LLMs, are disrupting technological innovation, product development, and society as a whole. AI's contribution to technology can come from multiple approaches that require access to large training data sets and clear performance evaluation criteria, ranging from pattern recognition and classification to generative models. Yet, AI has contributed less to fundamental science in part because large data sets of high-quality data for scientific practice and model discovery are more difficult to access. Generative AI, in general, and Large Language Models in particular, may represent an opportunity to augment and accelerate the scientific discovery of fundamental deep science with quantitative models. Here we explore and investigate aspects of an AI-driven, automated, closed-loop approach to scientific discovery, including self-driven hypothesis generation and open-ended autonomous exploration of the hypothesis space. Integrating AI-driven automation into the practice of science would mitigate current problems, including the replication of findings, systematic production of data, and ultimately democratisation of the scientific process. Realising these possibilities requires a vision for augmented AI coupled with a diversity of AI approaches able to deal with fundamental aspects of causality analysis and model discovery while enabling unbiased search across the space of putative explanations. These advances hold the promise to unleash AI's potential for searching and discovering the fundamental structure of our world beyond what human scientists have been able to achieve. Such a vision would push the boundaries of new fundamental science rather than automatize current workflows and instead open doors for technological innovation to tackle some of the greatest challenges facing humanity today. In the field of artificial intelligence (AI), the quest to understand and model data-generating processes (DGPs) is of paramount importance. Deep generative models (DGMs) have proven adept in capturing complex data distributions but often fall short in generalization and interpretability. On the other hand, causality offers a structured lens to comprehend the mechanisms driving data generation and highlights the causal-effect dynamics inherent in these processes. While causality excels in interpretability and the ability to extrapolate, it grapples with intricacies of high-dimensional spaces. Recognizing the synergistic potential, we delve into the confluence of causality and DGMs. We elucidate the integration of causal principles within DGMs, investigate causal identification using DGMs, and navigate an emerging research frontier of causality in large-scale generative models, particularly generative large language models (LLMs). We offer insights into methodologies, highlight open challenges, and suggest future directions, positioning our comprehensive review as an essential guide in this swiftly emerging and evolving area. The swift progress and ubiquitous adoption of Generative AI (GAI), Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPTs), and large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT, have spurred queries about their ethical application, use, and disclosure in scholarly research and scientific productions. A few publishers and journals have recently created their own sets of rules; however, the absence of a unified approach may lead to a 'Babel Tower Effect,' potentially resulting in confusion rather than desired standardization. In response to this, we present the ChatGPT, Generative Artificial Intelligence, and Natural Large Language Models for Accountable Reporting and Use Guidelines (CANGARU) initiative, with the aim of fostering a cross-disciplinary global inclusive consensus on the ethical use, disclosure, and proper reporting of GAI/GPT/LLM technologies in academia. The present protocol consists of four distinct parts: a) an ongoing systematic review of GAI/GPT/LLM applications to understand the linked ideas, findings, and reporting standards in scholarly research, and to formulate guidelines for its use and disclosure, b) a bibliometric analysis of existing author guidelines in journals that mention GAI/GPT/LLM, with the goal of evaluating existing guidelines, analyzing the disparity in their recommendations, and identifying common rules that can be brought into the Delphi consensus process, c) a Delphi survey to establish agreement on the items for the guidelines, ensuring principled GAI/GPT/LLM use, disclosure, and reporting in academia, and d) the subsequent development and dissemination of the finalized guidelines and their supplementary explanation and elaboration documents. We introduce generative interpretation, a new approach to estimating contractual meaning using large language models. As AI triumphalism is the order of the day, we proceed by way of grounded case studies, each illustrating the capabilities of these novel tools in distinct ways. Taking well-known contracts opinions, and sourcing the actual agreements that they adjudicated, we show that AI models can help factfinders ascertain ordinary meaning in context, quantify ambiguity, and fill gaps in parties' agreements. We also illustrate how models can calculate the probative value of individual pieces of extrinsic evidence. After offering best practices for the use of these models given their limitations, we consider their implications for judicial practice and contract theory. Using LLMs permits courts to estimate what the parties intended cheaply and accurately, and as such generative interpretation unsettles the current interpretative stalemate. Their use responds to efficiency-minded textualists and justice-oriented contextualists, who argue about whether parties will prefer cost and certainty or accuracy and fairness. Parties--and courts--would prefer a middle path, in which adjudicators strive to predict what the contract really meant, admitting just enough context to approximate reality while avoiding unguided and biased assimilation of evidence. As generative interpretation offers this possibility, we argue it can become the new workhorse of contractual interpretation. This paper presents novel systems and methodologies for the development of efficient large language models (LLMs). It explores the trade-offs between model size, performance, and computational resources, with the aim of maximizing the efficiency of these AI systems. The research explores novel methods that allow different parts of the model to share parameters, reducing the total number of unique parameters required. This approach ensures that the model remains compact without sacrificing its ability to learn and represent complex language structures. This study provides valuable insights and tools for creating more efficient and effective LLMs, contributing to a more sustainable and accessible future for AI language modeling. In this article, Schueller and Morris discuss the recent advances made from large language models (LLMs) and generative artificial intelligence (AI). These advances include supporting humans to provide better interventions, understanding processes in clinical interventions, and providing ethical considerations for the use of generative AI in clinical research and practice. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2023 APA, all rights reserved). In human activity recognition (HAR), the limited availability of annotated data presents a significant challenge. Drawing inspiration from the latest advancements in generative AI, including Large Language Models (LLMs) and motion synthesis models, we believe that generative AI can address this data scarcity by autonomously generating virtual IMU data from text descriptions. Beyond this, we spotlight several promising research pathways that could benefit from generative AI for the community, including the generating benchmark datasets, the development of foundational models specific to HAR, the exploration of hierarchical structures within HAR, breaking down complex activities, and applications in health sensing and activity summarization. Artificial intelligence (AI) generative models driven by the integration of AI and natural language processing technologies, such as OpenAI's chatbot generative pre-trained transformer large language model (LLM), are receiving much public attention and have the potential to transform personalized medicine. Dialysis patients are highly dependent on technology and their treatment generates a challenging large volume of data that has to be analyzed for knowledge extraction. We argue that, by integrating the data acquired from hemodialysis treatments with the powerful conversational capabilities of LLMs, nephrologists could personalize treatments adapted to patients' lifestyles and preferences. We also argue that this new conversational AI integrated with a personalized patient-computer interface will enhance patients' engagement and self-care by providing them with a more personalized experience. However, generative AI models require continuous and accurate updates of data, and expert supervision and must address potential biases and limitations. Dialysis patients can also benefit from other new emerging technologies such as Digital Twins with which patients' care can also be addressed from a personalized medicine perspective. In this paper, we will revise LLMs potential strengths in terms of their contribution to personalized medicine, and, in particular, their potential impact, and limitations in nephrology. Nephrologists' collaboration with AI academia and companies, to develop algorithms and models that are more transparent, understandable, and trustworthy, will be crucial for the next generation of dialysis patients. The combination of technology, patient-specific data, and AI should contribute to create a more personalized and interactive dialysis process, improving patients' quality of life. Large Language Models (LLMs) contribute significantly to the development of conversational AI and has great potentials to assist the scientific research in various areas. This paper attempts to address the following questions: What opportunities do the current generation of generative pre-trained transformers (GPTs) offer for the developments of noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ) technologies? Additionally, what potentials does the forthcoming generation of GPTs possess to push the frontier of research in fault-tolerant quantum computing (FTQC)? In this paper, we implement a QGAS model, which can rapidly propose promising ansatz architectures and evaluate them with application benchmarks including quantum chemistry and quantum finance tasks. Our results demonstrate that after a limited number of prompt guidelines and iterations, we can obtain a high-performance ansatz which is able to produce comparable results that are achieved by state-of-the-art quantum architecture search methods. This study provides a simple overview of GPT's capabilities in supporting quantum computing research while highlighting the limitations of the current GPT at the same time. Additionally, we discuss futuristic applications for LLM in quantum research. Transformer neural networks show promising capabilities, in particular for uses in materials analysis, design and manufacturing, including their capacity to work effectively with both human language, symbols, code, and numerical data. Here we explore the use of large language models (LLMs) as a tool that can support engineering analysis of materials, applied to retrieving key information about subject areas, developing research hypotheses, discovery of mechanistic relationships across disparate areas of knowledge, and writing and executing simulation codes for active knowledge generation based on physical ground truths. When used as sets of AI agents with specific features, capabilities, and instructions, LLMs can provide powerful problem solution strategies for applications in analysis and design problems. Our experiments focus on using a fine-tuned model, MechGPT, developed based on training data in the mechanics of materials domain. We first affirm how finetuning endows LLMs with reasonable understanding of domain knowledge. However, when queried outside the context of learned matter, LLMs can have difficulty to recall correct information. We show how this can be addressed using retrieval-augmented Ontological Knowledge Graph strategies that discern how the model understands what concepts are important and how they are related. Illustrated for a use case of relating distinct areas of knowledge - here, music and proteins - such strategies can also provide an interpretable graph structure with rich information at the node, edge and subgraph level. We discuss nonlinear sampling strategies and agent-based modeling applied to complex question answering, code generation and execution in the context of automated force field development from actively learned Density Functional Theory (DFT) modeling, and data analysis. We are amidst an explosion of artificial intelligence research, particularly around large language models (LLMs). These models have a range of applications across domains like medicine, finance, commonsense knowledge graphs, and crowdsourcing. Investigation into LLMs as part of crowdsourcing workflows remains an under-explored space. The crowdsourcing research community has produced a body of work investigating workflows and methods for managing complex tasks using hybrid human-AI methods. Within crowdsourcing, the role of LLMs can be envisioned as akin to a cog in a larger wheel of workflows. From an empirical standpoint, little is currently understood about how LLMs can improve the effectiveness of crowdsourcing workflows and how such workflows can be evaluated. In this work, we present a vision for exploring this gap from the perspectives of various stakeholders involved in the crowdsourcing paradigm -- the task requesters, crowd workers, platforms, and end-users. We identify junctures in typical crowdsourcing workflows at which the introduction of LLMs can play a beneficial role and propose means to augment existing design patterns for crowd work. Student simulation presents a transformative approach to enhance learning outcomes, advance educational research, and ultimately shape the future of effective pedagogy. We explore the feasibility of using large language models (LLMs), a remarkable achievement in AI, to simulate student learning behaviors. Unlike conventional machine learning based prediction, we leverage LLMs to instantiate virtual students with specific demographics and uncover intricate correlations among learning experiences, course materials, understanding levels, and engagement. Our objective is not merely to predict learning outcomes but to replicate learning behaviors and patterns of real students. We validate this hypothesis through three experiments. The first experiment, based on a dataset of N = 145, simulates student learning outcomes from demographic data, revealing parallels with actual students concerning various demographic factors. The second experiment (N = 4524) results in increasingly realistic simulated behaviors with more assessment history for virtual students modelling. The third experiment (N = 27), incorporating prior knowledge and course interactions, indicates a strong link between virtual students' learning behaviors and fine-grained mappings from test questions, course materials, engagement and understanding levels. Collectively, these findings deepen our understanding of LLMs and demonstrate its viability for student simulation, empowering more adaptable curricula design to enhance inclusivity and educational effectiveness. Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) has been demonstrated to signiﬁcantly enhance the performance of large language models (LLMs) by aligning their outputs with desired human values. However, RLHF is constrained by the expertise and productivity limitations of human evaluators. In this study, we investigate an alternative approach: Reinforcement Learning with Generative Adversarial Feedback (RLGAF) to RLHF. Our preliminary ﬁndings indicate that RLGAF can help align LLMs outputs while not suﬀering from the inherent restrictions of RLHF, suggesting promising avenues for further research on automating AI alignment. We evaluate the use of the open-source Llama-2 model for generating well-known, high-performance computing kernels (e.g., AXPY, GEMV, GEMM) on different parallel programming models and languages (e.g., C++: OpenMP, OpenMP Offload, OpenACC, CUDA, HIP; Fortran: OpenMP, OpenMP Offload, OpenACC; Python: numpy, Numba, pyCUDA, cuPy; and Julia: Threads, CUDA.jl, AMDGPU.jl). We built upon our previous work that is based on the OpenAI Codex, which is a descendant of GPT-3, to generate similar kernels with simple prompts via GitHub Copilot. Our goal is to compare the accuracy of Llama-2 and our original GPT-3 baseline by using a similar metric. Llama-2 has a simplified model that shows competitive or even superior accuracy. We also report on the differences between these foundational large language models as generative AI continues to redefine human-computer interactions. Overall, Copilot generates codes that are more reliable but less optimized, whereas codes generated by Llama-2 are less reliable but more optimized when correct. Large language models (LLMs) and generative AI have emerged as the most important areas in the field of natural language processing (NLP). LLMs are considered to be a key component in several NLP tasks, such as summarization, question-answering, sentiment classification, and translation. Newer LLMs, such as ChatGPT, BLOOMZ, and several such variants, are known to train on multilingual training data and hence are expected to process and generate text in multiple languages. Considering the widespread use of LLMs, evaluating their efficacy in multilingual settings is imperative. In this work, we evaluate the newest generative models (ChatGPT, mT0, and BLOOMZ) in the context of Indic languages. Specifically, we consider natural language generation (NLG) applications such as summarization and question-answering in monolingual and cross-lingual settings. We observe that current generative models have limited capability for generating text in Indic languages in a zero-shot setting. In contrast, generative models perform consistently better on manual quality-based evaluation in both Indic languages and English language generation. Considering limited generation performance, we argue that these LLMs are not intended to use in zero-shot fashion in downstream applications. Without a doubt, Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a hot topic in the media in recent times. This was spurred initially by the popular, widespread use of ChatGPT and other platforms to generate written material, imagery, and even audio/visual productions based on user-inputted prompts. Generative AI is defined by AI as: “a type of AI that uses machine learning algorithms to create new and original content like images, video, text, and audio” [1]. How do these technological advancements impact us in the scientific publishing world? Specifically, when is it appropriate and perhaps more importantly, when is it NOT appropriate to use such tools in producing published scientific articles? Strictly speaking, every time a word processor suggests a better way to phrase a sentence, basic AI is being applied in one’s writing. Taken to a much more sophisticated level, a writer can submit a roughly written draft to a generative AI platform using large language models (LLMs) and a more sophisticated written output could be produced and ultimately submitted. If a student in an English class, meant to teach students how to write well did submit such a piece for an assignment, this use of AI might constitute cheating. However, when authors use AIs to help polish their work for publication, this should be entirely appropriate since such an application enhances the work to help readers comprehend and appreciate such work better. Our journal has recently started providing our authors the option of using a “comprehensive writing and publication assistant” to improve their submissions. Submitting authors should see a link to the service we are partnering with the Paperpal Preflight Screening Tool. For a very reasonable fee, the tool offers translation, paraphrasing, consistency, and journal submission readiness checks on uploaded manuscript drafts. This service is particularly helpful for some international authors who may have a challenging time meeting our language requirement standards. In another scenario applicable to publishing, say a peer reviewer wishes to use AI to evaluate a submission. You might be asking: “wait, can AI do that?” Most certainly! Would that be acceptable though? There are indeed platforms out there that are trained on publicly available biomedical publications such that the AI is able to look up references to help a peer reviewer assess manuscripts. Maybe the peer reviewer just needs help getting started with the first draft of their review, or they may feel that the author’s language skills need a lot of help like in the earlier scenario. A major difference here, however, is that when a peer reviewer uploads a manuscript on one of these platforms, they would be breaching confidentiality which is not acceptable. The NIH does not allow AI to be used for the peer review of grant applications [2], and neither should such technology be used for publication peer reviews because the same breach of confidentiality occurs when an author’s manuscript is uploaded to a third party’s platform. Other concerns that Hosseini and Horbach (2023) identified fault “the fundamental opacity of LLM’s training data, inner workings, data handling, and development processes” which can result in “potential biases and the reproducibility of review reports” [3]. JECT peer reviewers will therefore be instructed to not rely on such systems in conducting their evaluations. Moreover, no editorial decisions on the final outcome of any manuscripts will be made using AI tools alone. To help authors navigate this new terrain, JECT will endeavor to provide new guidance in our Instruction for Authors as other journals are currently implementing [4]. Some principles that other journals are recommending and that we will likely adopt include: Generative AI e.g. Large Language Models (LLMs) can be used to generate new recipes. However, LLMs struggle with more complex aspects like recipe semantics and process comprehension. Furthermore, LLMs have limited ability to account for user preferences since they are based on statistical patterns. As a result, these recipes may be invalid. Evolutionary algorithms inspired by the process of natural selection are optimization algorithms that use stochastic operators to generate new solutions. These algorithms can generate large number of solutions from the set of possible solution space. Moreover, these algorithms have the capability to incorporate user preferences in fitness function to generate novel recipes that are more aligned with the fitness objective. In this paper, we propose the <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$EvoRecipes$ </tex-math></inline-formula> framework to generate novel recipes. The <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$EvoRecipes$ </tex-math></inline-formula> framework utilizes both Genetic Algorithm and generative AI in addition to <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$RecipeOn$ </tex-math></inline-formula> ontology, and <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$RecipeKG$ </tex-math></inline-formula> knowledge graph. Genetic Algorithm explore the large solution space of encoded recipe solutions and are capable of incorporating user preferences, while LLMs are used to generate recipe text from encoded recipe solutions. <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$EvoRecipes$ </tex-math></inline-formula> uses a population of context-aware recipe solutions from the <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$RecipeKG$ </tex-math></inline-formula> knowledge graph. <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$RecipeKG$ </tex-math></inline-formula> encodes recipes in RDF format using classes and properties as defined in the <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$RecipeOn$ </tex-math></inline-formula> ontology. Moreover, to evaluate the alignment of <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$EvoRecipe$ </tex-math></inline-formula> generated recipes with multiple intended objectives, we propose a fitness function that incorporates novelty, simplicity, visual appeal, and feasibility. Additionally, to evaluate the quality of the <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$EvoRecipe$ </tex-math></inline-formula> generated recipes while considering the subjective nature of recipes, we conducted a survey using multi-dimensional metrics (i.e. contextual, procedural, and novelty). Results show that <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$EvoRecipes$ </tex-math></inline-formula> generated recipes are novel, valid and incorporate user preferences. The GENERAL (GENerative, Explainable and Reasonable Artificial Learning) workshop, held at CHITALY 2023, delves into the advancements in General and Generative Artificial Intelligence (GGAI), with a focus on breakthroughs in natural language processing (NLP) and computer vision (CV). The workshop highlights the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) and Latent Diffusion Models (LDMs) in generating human-like content across text and images. It emphasizes the importance of AI explainability, aiming to understand, explain, and control the complexities of these AI systems in terms of fairness, accountability, and transparency. The workshop encourages interdisciplinary collaboration across fields like HCI, psychology, social studies, and the arts to better understand AI’s societal and cultural impacts. Topics of interest include user perceptions of generative AIs, machine psychology, AI assistants, ethical issues in Generative AI, and safety and control mechanisms for large language models. The emergence of large language models (LLM's), especially ChatGPT, has for the first time make AI known to almost everyone and affected every facet of our society. The LLMs have the potential to revolutionize the ways we seek and consume information. This has stemmed the recent trends in both academia and industry to develop LLM-based generative AI systems for various applications with enhanced capabilities. One such systems is the generative search and recommender system, which is capable of performing content retrieval, content repurposing, content creation and their integration to meet users' information needs. However, before such systems can be widely used and accepted, we need to address several challenges. The primary challenge is the trust and safety in the generated content as we expect the LLM's to make mistakes with hallucination. This is because of the quality of data being used for their training is often erroneous and biased. The other challenges in the search and recommendation domain include: how to teach the system to be pro-active in anticipating the needs of users and in directing the conversation towards a fruitful direction; as well as the integration of retrieved and generated content. This keynote presented a generative information seeking paradigm, and discuss key research towards a trustable generative system for search and recommendation.
 
 Date
 : 21 September 2023.
 Generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) in general, and large language models (LLMs) in particular, are highly fashionable. As they have the ability to generate coherent output based on prompts in natural language, they are promoted as tools to free knowledge workers from tedious tasks such as content writing, customer support and routine computer code generation. Unsurprisingly, their application is also attractive to professionals in the research domain, where mundane and laborious tasks, such as literature screening, are commonplace. We evaluate Vertex AI ‘text-bison’, a foundational LLM model, in a real-world academic scenario by replicating parts of a popular systematic review in the information management domain. By comparing the results of a zero-shot LLM-based approach with those of the original study, we gather evidence on the suitability of state-of-the-art general-purpose LLMs for the analysis of scientific content. We show that the LLM-based approach delivers good scientific content analysis performance for a general classification problem (ACC =0.9), acceptable performance for a domain-specific classification problem (ACC =0.8) and borderline performance for a text comprehension problem (ACC ≈0.69). We conclude that some content analysis tasks with moderate accuracy requirements may be supported by current LLMs. As the technology will evolve rapidly in the foreseeable future, studies on large corpora, where some inaccuracies are tolerable, or workflows that prepare large data sets for human processing, may increasingly benefit from the capabilities of GenAI. The use of generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Large Language Models (LLMs) in research and scholarly writing has challenged editorial policy, with varying tolerance about the extent to which this technology should be allowed. Journals need to re-examine their standards to ensure transparency and accountability with regard to the use of AI and LLMs in the preparation of manuscripts and the scientific investigation upon which these articles are based. Social workers are ideally suited to assume leadership roles in the formulation of editorial policies given their core commitment to integrity and making certain that technology use is consistent with their comprehensive ethical code Large Language Models (LLMs) and conversational-style generative artificial intelligence (AI) are causing major disruption to higher education pedagogy. The emergence of tools like ChatGPT has raised concerns about plagiarism detection but also presents opportunities for educators to leverage AI to build supportive learning environments. In this commentary, we explore the potential of AI-augmented teaching and learning practice in higher education, discussing both the productive affordances and challenges associated with these technologies. We offer instructional advice for writing instructional text to guide the generation of quality outputs from AI models, as well as a case study to illustrate using AI for assessment design. Ultimately, we suggest that AI should be seen as one tool among many that can be used to enhance teaching and learning outcomes in higher education. The rapid evolution of artificial intelligence (AI), specifically large language models (LLMs), has opened opportunities for various educational applications. This paper explored the feasibility of utilizing ChatGPT, one of the most popular LLMs, for automating feedback for Java programming assignments in an introductory computer science (CS1) class. Specifically, this study focused on three questions: 1) To what extent do students view LLM-generated feedback as formative? 2) How do students see the comparative affordances of feedback prompts that include their code, vs. those that exclude it? 3) What enhancements do students suggest for improving LLM-generated feedback? To address these questions, we generated automated feedback using the ChatGPT API for four lab assignments in a CS1 class. The survey results revealed that students perceived the feedback as aligning well with formative feedback guidelines established by Shute. Additionally, students showed a clear preference for feedback generated by including the students' code as part of the LLM prompt, and our thematic study indicated that the preference was mainly attributed to the specificity, clarity, and corrective nature of the feedback. Moreover, this study found that students generally expected specific and corrective feedback with sufficient code examples, but had diverged opinions on the tone of the feedback. This study demonstrated that ChatGPT could generate Java programming assignment feedback that students perceived as formative. It also offered insights into the specific improvements that would make the ChatGPT-generated feedback useful for students. Artificial Intelligence (AI) is a transformative force in communication and messaging strategy, with potential to disrupt traditional approaches. Large language models (LLMs), a form of AI, are capable of generating high-quality, humanlike text. We investigate the persuasive quality of AI-generated messages to understand how AI could impact public health messaging. Specifically, through a series of studies designed to characterize and evaluate generative AI in developing public health messages, we analyze COVID-19 pro-vaccination messages generated by GPT-3, a state-of-the-art instantiation of a large language model. Study 1 is a systematic evaluation of GPT-3's ability to generate pro-vaccination messages. Study 2 then observed peoples' perceptions of curated GPT-3-generated messages compared to human-authored messages released by the CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention), finding that GPT-3 messages were perceived as more effective, stronger arguments, and evoked more positive attitudes than CDC messages. Finally, Study 3 assessed the role of source labels on perceived quality, finding that while participants preferred AI-generated messages, they expressed dispreference for messages that were labeled as AI-generated. The results suggest that, with human supervision, AI can be used to create effective public health messages, but that individuals prefer their public health messages to come from human institutions rather than AI sources. We propose best practices for assessing generative outputs of large language models in future social science research and ways health professionals can use AI systems to augment public health messaging. The rapid development of Large Language Models (LLMs) has substantially expanded the range of tasks they can address. In the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP), researchers have shifted their focus from conventional NLP tasks (e.g., sequence tagging and parsing) towards tasks that revolve around aligning with human needs (e.g., brainstorming and email writing). This shift in task distribution imposes new requirements on evaluating these aligned models regarding generality (i.e., assessing performance across diverse scenarios), flexibility (i.e., examining under different protocols), and interpretability (i.e., scrutinizing models with explanations). In this paper, we propose a generative judge with 13B parameters, Auto-J, designed to address these challenges. Our model is trained on user queries and LLM-generated responses under massive real-world scenarios and accommodates diverse evaluation protocols (e.g., pairwise response comparison and single-response evaluation) with well-structured natural language critiques. To demonstrate the efficacy of our approach, we construct a new testbed covering 58 different scenarios. Experimentally, Auto-J outperforms a series of strong competitors, including both open-source and closed-source models, by a large margin. We also provide detailed analysis and case studies to further reveal the potential of our method and make a variety of resources public at https://github.com/GAIR-NLP/auto-j. Generative LLMs have been shown to effectively power AI-based code authoring tools that can suggest entire statements or blocks of code during code authoring. In this paper we present CodeCompose, an AI-assisted code authoring tool developed and deployed at Meta internally. CodeCompose is based on the InCoder LLM that merges generative capabilities with bi-directionality. We have scaled up CodeCompose to serve tens of thousands of developers at Meta, across 9 programming languages and several coding surfaces. We present our experience in making design decisions about the model and system architecture for CodeCompose that addresses these challenges. To release a LLM model at this scale, we needed to first ensure that it is sufficiently accurate. In a random sample of 20K source code files, depending on the language, we are able to reproduce hidden lines between 40% and 58% of the time, an improvement of 1.4x and 4.1x over a model trained only on public data. We gradually rolled CodeCompose out to developers. At the time of this writing, 16K developers have used it with 8% of their code coming directly from CodeCompose. To triangulate our numerical findings, we conduct a thematic analysis on the feedback from 70 developers. We find that 91.5% of the feedback is positive, with the most common themes being discovering APIs, dealing with boilerplate code, and accelerating coding. Meta continues to integrate this feedback into CodeCompose. The evolution of wireless networks gravitates towards connected intelligence, a concept that envisions seamless interconnectivity among humans, objects, and intelligence in a hyper-connected cyber-physical world. Edge artificial intelligence (Edge AI) is a promising solution to achieve connected intelligence by delivering high-quality, low-latency, and privacy-preserving AI services at the network edge. This article presents a vision of autonomous edge AI systems that automatically organize, adapt, and optimize themselves to meet users' diverse requirements, leveraging the power of large language models (LLMs), i.e., Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT). By exploiting the powerful abilities of GPT in language understanding, planning, and code generation, as well as incorporating classic wisdom such as task-oriented communication and edge federated learning, we present a versatile framework that efficiently coordinates edge AI models to cater to users' personal demands while automatically generating code to train new models in a privacy-preserving manner. Experimental results demonstrate the system's remarkable ability to accurately comprehend user demands, efficiently execute AI models with minimal cost, and effectively create high-performance AI models at edge servers. The recent popularity of generative AI (GAI) applications such as ChatGPT portend a new era of research, teaching, and learning across domains, including in engineering (Bubeck et al., 2023; Kasneci et al., 2023; Lo, 2023; Qadir, 2023). In this guest editorial, we discuss the potential impact of GAI for engineering education as researchers and teachers. We see this editorial as the start of a serious dialogue within the community around how GAI can and will change our practices, and what we can do to respond to these shifts. GAI is built on foundational models (FMs) that can be adapted to various other tasks, such as large language models (LLMs), and they operate by learning from many examples and becoming very good at predicting the subsequent probable output or output sequence. Given the abundance of digitized data, they can quickly learn a wide range of topics and respond to user queries almost instantly. Whether engineering a new software application, writing a code snippet to analyze data, designing a product, or composing a cover letter for a job application, GAI users can leverage the power of LLMs to generate outputs that meet their specific needs (UNESCO, 2023). The ability to learn a skill and adapt it to new contexts is a capability that humans have excelled at for a long time. Some would even argue that the competence to learn original things in new environments to tackle novel problems, and teach it to others, is one of the most unique characteristics of our species (Tomasello, 2009). To assist us in this process, we also have the capability to continually create tools and techniques, another distinct trait of humans and central to the engineering profession (Johri, 2022). What, though, is the potential and limit of developing tools and technologies that can mimic and even go beyond what we have conceived of as human intelligence? What potential consequences do technology that can generate novel outputs have for society, especially education in terms of both benefits and harms (Bommasani et al., 2021; Farrokhnia et al., 2023)? What implications does this have for engineering educators (Johri, 2020)? While we discuss how GAI shapes research and teaching practices within engineering education, we recognize that there are additional implications for the use of GAI for self-motivated and sustained learning initiated by learners on their own. That topic is beyond the scope of this editorial and discussed in some detail in the Menekse et al.0s guest editorial in this issue. Diverse transport demands have resulted in the wide existence of heterogeneous vehicle automation systems. While these systems have demonstrated effectiveness, they also pose challenges in terms of the share of technological advancements among different organizations and lead to poor generalization ability of individual systems. This article proposes a Transformer-based unified framework, VistaGPT, to address these challenges. VistaGPT, composed of Modular Federations of Vehicular Transformers (M-FoV) and Automated Composing of Autonomous Driving Systems (AutoAuto), aims to overcome the information barriers due to system-level and module-level heterogeneity. M-FoV collects and organizes Transformer-based models in a modular fashion to facilitate system integration by providing diversity and versatility. AutoAuto utilizes large language models (LLMs) to automatically compose end-to-end autonomous driving systems with a “Dividing and Recombining” strategy. Besides, we deploy Scenario Engineering systems to evaluate the composed systems and provide systematic feedback for the optimization of AutoAuto, and Federated intelligence to contribute to diverse training samples and applications. With its capacity, scalability, and diversity, VistaGPT provides a new paradigm of LLM-aided system development for transport automation, which promotes virtual-real interactive parallel driving and advances progress toward “6S” objectives. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) is rapidly transforming the medical field, as advanced tools powered by large language models (LLMs) make their way into clinical practice, research, and education. Chatbots, which can generate human-like responses, have gained attention for their potential applications. Therefore, familiarity with LLMs and other promising generative AI tools is crucial to harness their potential safely and effectively. As these AI-based technologies continue to evolve, medical professionals must develop a strong understanding of AI terminologies and concepts, particularly generative AI, to effectively tackle real-world challenges and create solutions. This knowledge will enable healthcare professionals to utilize AI-driven innovations for improved patient care and increased productivity in the future. In this brief technical report, we explore 20 of the most relevant terminology associated with the underlying technology behind LLMs and generative AI as they relate to the medical field and provide some examples of how these topics relate to healthcare applications to help in their understanding. Growing applications of large language models (LLMs) trained by a third party raise serious concerns on the security vulnerability of LLMs.It has been demonstrated that malicious actors can covertly exploit these vulnerabilities in LLMs through poisoning attacks aimed at generating undesirable outputs. While poisoning attacks have received significant attention in the image domain (e.g., object detection), and classification tasks, their implications for generative models, particularly in the realm of natural language generation (NLG) tasks, remain poorly understood. To bridge this gap, we perform a comprehensive exploration of various poisoning techniques to assess their effectiveness across a range of generative tasks. Furthermore, we introduce a range of metrics designed to quantify the success and stealthiness of poisoning attacks specifically tailored to NLG tasks. Through extensive experiments on multiple NLG tasks, LLMs and datasets, we show that it is possible to successfully poison an LLM during the fine-tuning stage using as little as 1\% of the total tuning data samples. Our paper presents the first systematic approach to comprehend poisoning attacks targeting NLG tasks considering a wide range of triggers and attack settings. We hope our findings will assist the AI security community in devising appropriate defenses against such threats. Large Language Models (LLMs) have gained significant attention in the field of Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Artificial Intelligence (AI) due to their ability to generate human-like text and facilitate conversational interactions. However, the majority of LLMs are majorly developed for English, limiting their accessibility and effectiveness for non-English speaking populations. In India, where only 10% of the population is proficient in English, the need for LLM models adapted to regional languages becomes crucial. This research paper focuses on the adaptability of LLMs to the Odia language, spoken by approximately 50 million people in India. With a primary objective to cater to the Odia-speaking community, we aim to evaluate existing LLM models such as ChatGPT, and Olive, an instruction following Odia LLM, specifically in the context of generating conversational outputs in Odia. We employ a critical evaluation approach to assess the performance, language understanding, and response generation capabilities of the LLM models for the Odia language. By conducting experiments and comparative analysis, we seek to determine the strengths, weaknesses, and potential areas of improvement for the existing LLM models. Our findings will contribute to the development of more effective and contextually accurate generative chatbots for the Odia language, enabling better communication and accessibility for the Odia-speaking population. Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive text generation capabilities, prompting us to reconsider the future of human-AI co-creation and how humans interact with LLMs. In this paper, we present a spectrum of content generation tasks and their corresponding human-AI interaction patterns. These tasks include: 1) fixed-scope content curation tasks with minimal human-AI interactions, 2) independent creative tasks with precise human-AI interactions, and 3) complex and interdependent creative tasks with iterative human-AI interactions. We encourage the generative AI and HCI research communities to focus on the more complex and interdependent tasks, which require greater levels of human involvement. With recent advancements in natural language processing, Large Language Models (LLMs) have emerged as powerful tools for various real-world applications. Despite their prowess, the intrinsic generative abilities of LLMs may prove insufficient for handling complex tasks which necessitate a combination of task planning and the usage of external tools. In this paper, we first propose a structured framework tailored for LLM-based AI Agents and discuss the crucial capabilities necessary for tackling intricate problems. Within this framework, we design two distinct types of agents (i.e., one-step agent and sequential agent) to execute the inference process. Subsequently, we instantiate the framework using various LLMs and evaluate their Task Planning and Tool Usage (TPTU) abilities on typical tasks. By highlighting key findings and challenges, our goal is to provide a helpful resource for researchers and practitioners to leverage the power of LLMs in their AI applications. Our study emphasizes the substantial potential of these models, while also identifying areas that need more investigation and improvement. Abstract Natural language processing (NLP), a subclass of artificial intelligence, large language models (LLMs), and its latest applications, such as Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPT), ChatGPT, or LLAMA, have recently become one of the most discussed topics. Up to now, artificial intelligence and NLP ultimately impacted several areas, such as finance, economics and diagnostic/scoring systems in healthcare. Another area that artificial intelligence has affected and will continue to affect increasingly is academic life. This narrative review will define NLP, LLMs and their applications, discuss the opportunities and challenges that components of academic society will experience in rheumatology, and discuss the impact of NLP and LLMs in rheumatology healthcare. The evolution towards 6G architecture promises a transformative shift in communication networks, with artificial intelligence (AI) playing a pivotal role. This paper delves deep into the seamless integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) and Generalized Pretrained Transformers (GPT) within 6G systems. Their ability to grasp intent, strategize, and execute intricate commands will be pivotal in redefining network functionalities and interactions. Central to this is the AI Interconnect framework, intricately woven to facilitate AI-centric operations within the network. Building on the continuously evolving current state-of-the-art, we present a new architectural perspective for the upcoming generation of mobile networks. Here, LLMs and GPTs will collaboratively take center stage alongside traditional pre-generative AI and machine learning (ML) algorithms. This union promises a novel confluence of the old and new, melding tried-and-tested methods with transformative AI technologies. Along with providing a conceptual overview of this evolution, we delve into the nuances of practical applications arising from such an integration. Through this paper, we envisage a symbiotic integration where AI becomes the cornerstone of the next-generation communication paradigm, offering insights into the structural and functional facets of an AI-native 6G network. Users are increasingly being warned to check AI-generated content for correctness. Still, as LLMs (and other generative models) generate more complex output, such as summaries, tables, or code, it becomes harder for the user to audit or evaluate the output for quality or correctness. Hence, we are seeing the emergence of tool-assisted experiences to help the user double-check a piece of AI-generated content. We refer to these as co-audit tools. Co-audit tools complement prompt engineering techniques: one helps the user construct the input prompt, while the other helps them check the output response. As a specific example, this paper describes recent research on co-audit tools for spreadsheet computations powered by generative models. We explain why co-audit experiences are essential for any application of generative AI where quality is important and errors are consequential (as is common in spreadsheet computations). We propose a preliminary list of principles for co-audit, and outline research challenges. Thanks to their generative capabilities, large language models (LLMs) have become an invaluable tool for creative processes. These models have the capacity to produce hundreds and thousands of visual and textual outputs, offering abundant inspiration for creative endeavors. But are we harnessing their full potential? We argue that current interaction paradigms fall short, guiding users towards rapid convergence on a limited set of ideas, rather than empowering them to explore the vast latent design space in generative models. To address this limitation, we propose a framework that facilitates the structured generation of design space in which users can seamlessly explore, evaluate, and synthesize a multitude of responses. We demonstrate the feasibility and usefulness of this framework through the design and development of an interactive system, Luminate, and a user study with 14 professional writers. Our work advances how we interact with LLMs for creative tasks, introducing a way to harness the creative potential of LLMs. Generative Large Language Models (LLMs) show potential in data analysis, yet their full capabilities remain uncharted. Our work explores the capabilities of LLMs for creating and refining visualizations via conversational interfaces. We used an LLM to conduct a re-analysis of a prior Wizard-of-Oz study examining the use of chatbots for conducting visual analysis. We surfaced the strengths and weaknesses of LLM-driven analytic chatbots, finding that they fell short in supporting progressive visualization refinements. From these findings, we developed AI Threads, a multi-threaded analytic chatbot that enables analysts to proactively manage conversational context and improve the efficacy of its outputs. We evaluate its usability through a crowdsourced study (n=40) and in-depth interviews with expert analysts (n=10). We further demonstrate the capabilities of AI Threads on a dataset outside the LLM's training corpus. Our findings show the potential of LLMs while also surfacing challenges and fruitful avenues for future research. Control Flow Graphs (CFGs) are essential for visualizing, understanding and analyzing program behavior. For statically-typed programming language like Java, developers obtain CFGs by using bytecode-based methods for compilable code and Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)-based methods for partially uncompilable code. However, explicit syntax errors during AST construction and implicit semantic errors caused by bad coding practices can lead to behavioral loss and deviation of CFGs.To address the issue, we propose a novel approach that leverages the error-tolerant and understanding ability of pre-trained Large Language Models (LLMs) to generate CFGs. Our approach involves a Chain of Thought (CoT) with four steps: structure hierarchy extraction, nested code block extraction, CFG generation of nested code blocks, and fusion of all nested code blocks' CFGs. To address the limitations of the original CoT's single-prompt approach (i.e., completing all steps in a single generative pass), which can result in an ``epic'' prompt with hard-to-control behavior and error accumulation, we break down the CoT into an AI chain with explicit sub-steps. Each sub-step corresponds to a separate AI-unit, with an effective prompt assigned to each unit for interacting with LLMs to accomplish a specific purpose.Our experiments confirmed that our method outperforms existing CFG tools in terms of node and edge coverage, especially for incomplete or erroneous code. We also conducted an ablation experiment and confirmed the effectiveness of AI chain design principles: Hierarchical Task Breakdown, Unit Composition, and Mix of AI Units and Non-AI Units.Our work opens up new possibilities for building foundational software engineering tools based on LLMs, as opposed to traditional program analysis methods. The recent progress in generative AI models, particularly large language models (LLMs), has brought about a transformation in the field of education. Conversational LLM services, such as Google's Bard and OpenAI's ChatGPT, offer students access to many abilities such as summarization and generation of text and code, and on-demand replies to questions on expert topics. In this paper, we observe ChatGPT to explore how LLM services impact learning and instruction in higher education. First, we mapped the capabilities of the system by reviewing the grey literature on ChatGPT and using the system ourselves for two months. Second, we selected a Bachelor level computer science curriculum from a Finnish university, and examined the impact of ChatGPT on the offered courses. As an outcome of this study, we highlight 13 implications for students' learning in higher education, and discuss the contemporary future of AI-assisted learning in universities and beyond. Artificial Intelligence (AI), particularly through the advent of large-scale generative AI (GenAI) models such as Large Language Models (LLMs), has become a transformative element in contemporary technology. While these models have unlocked new possibilities, they simultaneously present significant challenges, such as concerns over data privacy and the propensity to generate misleading or fabricated content. Current frameworks for Responsible AI (RAI) often fall short in providing the granular guidance necessary for tangible application, especially for Accountability —a principle that is pivotal for ensuring transparent and auditable decision-making, bolstering public trust, and meeting increasing regulatory expectations. This study bridges the Accountability gap by introducing a comprehensive metrics catalogue, formulated through a systematic multivocal literature review (MLR) that integrates findings from both academic and grey literature. Our catalogue delineates process metrics that underpin procedural integrity, resource metrics that provide necessary tools and frameworks, and product metrics that reflect the outputs of AI systems. This tripartite framework is designed to operationalize Accountability in AI, with a special emphasis on addressing the intricacies of GenAI. The proposed metrics catalogue provides a robust framework for instilling Accountability in AI systems. It offers practical, actionable guidance for organizations, thereby shaping responsible practices in the field. Large Language Models (LLMs) offer novel opportunities for educational applications that have the potential to transform traditional learning for students. Despite AI-enhanced applications having the potential to provide personalized learning experiences, more studies are needed on the design of generative AI systems and evidence for using them in real educational settings. In this paper, we design, implement and evaluate \texttt{Reviewriter}, a novel tool to provide students with AI-generated instructions for writing peer reviews in German. Our study identifies three key aspects: a) we provide insights into student needs when writing peer reviews with generative models which we then use to develop a novel system to provide adaptive instructions b) we fine-tune three German language models on a selected corpus of 11,925 student-written peer review texts in German and choose German-GPT2 based on quantitative measures and human evaluation, and c) we evaluate our tool with fourteen students, revealing positive technology acceptance based on quantitative measures. Additionally, the qualitative feedback presents the benefits and limitations of generative AI in peer review writing. Large language models (LLMs) have broad potential applications in medicine, such as aiding with education, providing reassurance to patients, and supporting clinical decision-making. However, there is a notable gap in understanding their applicability and performance in the surgical domain and how their performance varies across specialties. This paper aims to evaluate the performance of LLMs in answering surgical questions relevant to clinical practice and to assess how this performance varies across different surgical specialties. We used the MedMCQA dataset, a large-scale multi-choice question-answer (MCQA) dataset consisting of clinical questions across all areas of medicine. We extracted the relevant 23,035 surgical questions and submitted them to the popular LLMs Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPT)-3.5 and GPT-4 (OpenAI OpCo, LLC, San Francisco, CA). Generative Pre-trained Transformer is a large language model that can generate human-like text by predicting subsequent words in a sentence based on the context of the words that come before it. It is pre-trained on a diverse range of texts and can perform a variety of tasks, such as answering questions, without needing task-specific training. The question-answering accuracy of GPT was calculated and compared between the two models and across surgical specialties. Both GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 achieved accuracies of 53.3% and 64.4%, respectively, on surgical questions, showing a statistically significant difference in performance. When compared to their performance on the full MedMCQA dataset, the two models performed differently: GPT-4 performed worse on surgical questions than on the dataset as a whole, while GPT-3.5 showed the opposite pattern. Significant variations in accuracy were also observed across different surgical specialties, with strong performances in anatomy, vascular, and paediatric surgery and worse performances in orthopaedics, ENT, and neurosurgery. Large language models exhibit promising capabilities in addressing surgical questions, although the variability in their performance between specialties cannot be ignored. The lower performance of the latest GPT-4 model on surgical questions relative to questions across all medicine highlights the need for targeted improvements and continuous updates to ensure relevance and accuracy in surgical applications. Further research and continuous monitoring of LLM performance in surgical domains are crucial to fully harnessing their potential and mitigating the risks of misinformation. The task of cultivating healthy communication in online communities becomes increasingly urgent, as gaming and social media experiences become progressively more immersive and life-like. We approach the challenge of moderating online communities by training student models using a large language model (LLM). We use zero-shot learning models to distill and expand datasets followed by a few-shot learning and a fine-tuning approach, leveraging open-access generative pre-trained transformer models (GPT) from OpenAI. Our preliminary findings suggest, that when properly trained, LLMs can excel in identifying actor intentions, moderating toxic comments, and rewarding positive contributions. The student models perform above-expectation in non-contextual assignments such as identifying classically toxic behavior and perform sufficiently on contextual assignments such as identifying positive contributions to online discourse. Further, using open-access models like OpenAI's GPT we experience a step-change in the development process for what has historically been a complex modeling task. We contribute to the information system (IS) discourse with a rapid development framework on the application of generative AI in content online moderation and management of culture in decentralized, pseudonymous communities by providing a sample model suite of industrial-ready generative AI models based on open-access LLMs. Dictionaries are one of the oldest and most used linguistic resources. Building them is a complex task that, to the best of our knowledge, has yet to be explored with generative Large Language Models (LLMs). We introduce the"Spanish Built Factual Freectianary"(Spanish-BFF) as the first Spanish AI-generated dictionary. This first-of-its-kind free dictionary uses GPT-3. We also define future steps we aim to follow to improve this initial commitment to the field, such as more additional languages. The rapid growth of information in the field of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), particularly in the subfields of Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Machine Learning (ML), presents a significant challenge for researchers and practitioners to keep pace with the latest developments. To address the problem of information overload, this report by the Natural Language Learning Group at Bielefeld University focuses on identifying the most popular papers on arXiv, with a specific emphasis on NLP and ML. The objective is to offer a quick guide to the most relevant and widely discussed research, aiding both newcomers and established researchers in staying abreast of current trends. In particular, we compile a list of the 40 most popular papers based on normalized citation counts from the first half of 2023. We observe the dominance of papers related to Large Language Models (LLMs) and specifically ChatGPT during the first half of 2023, with the latter showing signs of declining popularity more recently, however. Further, NLP related papers are the most influential (around 60\% of top papers) even though there are twice as many ML related papers in our data. Core issues investigated in the most heavily cited papers are: LLM efficiency, evaluation techniques, ethical considerations, embodied agents, and problem-solving with LLMs. Additionally, we examine the characteristics of top papers in comparison to others outside the top-40 list (noticing the top paper's focus on LLM related issues and higher number of co-authors) and analyze the citation distributions in our dataset, among others. The recent large language models (LLMs), e.g., ChatGPT, have been able to generate human-like and fluent responses when provided with specific instructions. While admitting the convenience brought by technological advancement, educators also have concerns that students might leverage LLMs to complete their writing assignments and pass them off as their original work. Although many AI content detection studies have been conducted as a result of such concerns, most of these prior studies modeled AI content detection as a classification problem, assuming that a text is either entirely human-written or entirely AI-generated. In this study, we investigated AI content detection in a rarely explored yet realistic setting where the text to be detected is collaboratively written by human and generative LLMs (termed as hybrid text for simplicity). We first formalized the detection task as identifying the transition points between human-written content and AI-generated content from a given hybrid text (boundary detection). We constructed a hybrid essay dataset by partially and randomly removing sentences from the original student-written essays and then instructing ChatGPT to fill in for the incomplete essays. Then we proposed a two-step detection approach where we (1) separated AI-generated content from human-written content during the encoder training process; and (2) calculated the distances between every two adjacent prototypes (a prototype is the mean of a set of consecutive sentences from the hybrid text in the embedding space) and assumed that the boundaries exist between the two adjacent prototypes that have the furthest distance from each other. Through extensive experiments, we observed the following main findings: (1) the proposed approach consistently outperformed the baseline methods across different experiment settings; (2) the encoder training process (i.e., step 1 of the above two-step approach) can significantly boost the performance of the proposed approach; (3) when detecting boundaries for single-boundary hybrid essays, the proposed approach could be enhanced by adopting a relatively large prototype size (i.e., the number of sentences needed to calculate a prototype), leading to a 22% improvement (against the best baseline method) in the In-Domain evaluation and an 18% improvement in the Out-of-Domain evaluation. GPT stands for generative pre-trained transformer, which is a type of large language model (LLM) trained by leveraging neural networks and a vast large dataset mainly derived from the Internet. An LLM uses a recently fast evolved machine learning technique called deep learning to produce text that looks like it is produced by a human. When LLMs are well leveraged, empowered applications can perform various natural language processing tasks such as answering questions, summarizing texts and even generating or debugging lines of code. Undoubtedly, the ongoing, astonishing phenomenal artificial intelligence (AI) wave worldwide is attributed to the recently released ChatGPT whose LLM engine was trained by OpenAI using a massive dataset of web pages over the Internet, which included billions of texts from books, articles and other sources. Furthermore, the new release of GPT-4 from OpenAI further enhanced the capability of ChatGPT based on GPT-3.5. It takes a longer text and an image as input, while generating much richer and improved responses than its earlier version. Text summarization, humanlike conversation, music and essay composition, poetry and story writing, fake news generation are just a few listed here as GPT or the like AI’s output today. Indeed, the generated viral sensation and excitement from GPT or generative AI in general have already made GPT an extremely hot topic for almost everyone, including from end users, educators, engineers, scientists, to entrepreneurs, investors, policymakers and so on so forth. The overwhelming attention received from the advances of GPT has stimulated the emergence of a lot of variants of ChatGPT worldwide. Due to the flocking-in effects of capitalism or marketing propaganda, many of those variants might be imposters. AI policymakers and educators are deeply concerned with the negativity of the outcomes derived from GPT products, including but not limited to disinformation, academic cheating, deepfakes, bias, ethical implications and political propaganda. However, the majority of GPT related AI products are truly transforming the world in a positive manner, focusing on significantly improved productivity, convenience and daily life assistance that should make the world brighter and more promising over time. Yes, it seems a little bit chaotic for now due to the lack of the needed AI regulations and risk management protocols. But AI will certainly continue to evolve and the output from the future AI could be drastically out of our imagination. While we are witnessing the dawn of a new digitalized era, the world starts to wonder how radical changes could be in the coming days when compared to the transformations in humanity with the arrival of electricity, personal computers, the Internet, or smartphones. As we are waiting for safe protocols and regulatory frameworks around AI to ensure that the risks aroundAIwill bemanageable, this editorial calls onmore research on howGPT or the like can revolutionize AI applications to empower positively the future digital transformations in serving the industry, government, public, society and human beings at large. Editorial With the rapid advancement of Large Language Models (LLMs) and their outstanding performance in semantic and contextual comprehension, the potential of LLMs in specialized domains warrants exploration. This paper introduces the NoteAid EHR Interaction Pipeline, an innovative approach developed using generative LLMs to assist in patient education, a task stemming from the need to aid patients in understanding Electronic Health Records (EHRs). Building upon the NoteAid work, we designed two novel tasks from the patient's perspective: providing explanations for EHR content that patients may not understand and answering questions posed by patients after reading their EHRs. We extracted datasets containing 10,000 instances from MIMIC Discharge Summaries and 876 instances from the MADE medical notes collection, respectively, executing the two tasks through the NoteAid EHR Interaction Pipeline with these data. Performance data of LLMs on these tasks were collected and constructed as the corresponding NoteAid EHR Interaction Dataset. Through a comprehensive evaluation of the entire dataset using LLM assessment and a rigorous manual evaluation of 64 instances, we showcase the potential of LLMs in patient education. Besides, the results provide valuable data support for future exploration and applications in this domain while also supplying high-quality synthetic datasets for in-house system training. Recent Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in generating text that closely resembles human writing across wide range of styles and genres. However, such capabilities are prone to potential abuse, such as fake news generation, spam email creation, and misuse in academic assignments. Hence, it is essential to build automated approaches capable of distinguishing between artificially generated text and human-authored text. In this paper, we propose a simple yet efficient solution to this problem by ensembling predictions from multiple constituent LLMs. Compared to previous state-of-the-art approaches, which are perplexity-based or uses ensembles with a number of LLMs, our condensed ensembling approach uses only two constituent LLMs to achieve comparable performance. Experiments conducted on four benchmark datasets for generative text classification show performance improvements in the range of 0.5 to 100\% compared to previous state-of-the-art approaches. We also study the influence that the training data from individual LLMs have on model performance. We found that substituting commercially-restrictive Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) data with data generated from other open language models such as Falcon, Large Language Model Meta AI (LLaMA2), and Mosaic Pretrained Transformers (MPT) is a feasible alternative when developing generative text detectors. Furthermore, to demonstrate zero-shot generalization, we experimented with an English essays dataset, and results suggest that our ensembling approach can handle new data effectively. The AI-based technologies used in healthcare systems have witnessed significant growth and innovation, as this growth is attributed to innovations in AI and rise in data collection in the healthcare sector. This survey paper provides a comprehensive overview of the diverse technological advancements reshaping the healthcare landscape. The reviewed topics include Medical Image Interpretation using Deep Learning, Generative AI-based Large Language Models (LLMs), Natural Language Processing for Healthcare Records to give a sense of what AI based systems look like in healthcare. For each of these topics, we've delved into their technical aspects and their applications. Through an overview of these cutting-edge technologies, this research aims to shed light on their current state, challenges, and potential implications for the future of health care. From enhancing diagnostics to improving patient care and accessibility, AI is poised to play pivotal roles in shaping the healthcare industry for years to come. Furthermore, this survey also delves into the ethical considerations surrounding these technologies. Artificial Intelligence (AI), particularly through the advent of large-scale generative AI (GenAI) models such as Large Language Models (LLMs), has become a transformative element in contemporary technology. While these models have unlocked new possibilities, they simultaneously present significant challenges, such as concerns over data privacy and the propensity to generate misleading or fabricated content. Current frameworks for Responsible AI (RAI) often fall short in providing the granular guidance necessary for tangible application, especially for Accountability-a principle that is pivotal for ensuring transparent and auditable decision-making, bolstering public trust, and meeting increasing regulatory expectations. This study bridges the accountability gap by introducing our effort towards a comprehensive metrics catalogue, formulated through a systematic multivocal literature review (MLR) that integrates findings from both academic and grey literature. Our catalogue delineates process metrics that underpin procedural integrity, resource metrics that provide necessary tools and frameworks, and product metrics that reflect the outputs of AI systems. This tripartite framework is designed to operationalize Accountability in AI, with a special emphasis on addressing the intricacies of GenAI. Artificial Intelligence (AI) has been heralded as a hero by some and rejected as a harbinger of destruction by others. While many in the community are excited about the functionality and promise AI brings to the field of biodiversity informatics, others have reservations regarding its widespread use. This talk will specifically address Large Language Models (LLMs) highlighting both the pros and cons of using LLMs. Like any tool, LLMs are neither good nor bad in and of themselves, but AI does need to be used within the appropriate scope of its ability and properly. Topics to be covered include model opacity (Franzoni 2023), privacy concerns (Wu et al. 2023), potential for algorithmic harm (Marjanovic et al. 2021) and model bias (Wang et al. 2020) in the context of generative AI along with how these topics differ from similar concerns when using traditional ML (Machine Learning) applications. Potential for implementation and training to ensure the most fair environment when leveraging AI and keeping FAIR (Findability, Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reproducibility) principles in mind, will also be discussed.
 The topics covered will be mainly framed through the Biodiversity Information Standards (TDWG) community, focusing on sociotechnical aspects and implications of implementing LLMs and generative AI.
 Finally, this talk will explore the potential applicability of TDWG standards pertaining to uniform prompting vocabulary when using generative AI and employing it as a tool for biodiversity informatics. The adoption of generative AI technologies is swiftly expanding. Services employing both linguistic and mul-timodal models are evolving, offering users increasingly precise responses. Consequently, human reliance on these technologies is expected to grow rapidly. With the premise that people will be impacted by the output of AI, we explored approaches to help AI output produce better results. Initially, we evaluated how contemporary AI services competitively meet user needs, then examined society's depiction as mirrored by Large Language Models (LLMs). We did a query experiment, querying about social conventions in various countries and eliciting a one-word response. We compared the LLMs' value judgments with public data and suggested an model of decision-making in value-conflicting scenarios which could be adopted for future machine value judgments. This paper advocates for a practical approach to using AI as a tool for investigating other remote worlds. This re-search has significance in implicitly rejecting the notion of AI making value judgments and instead arguing a more critical perspective on the environment that defers judgmental capabilities to individuals. We anticipate this study will empower anyone, regardless of their capacity, to receive safe and accurate value judgment-based out-puts effectively. With the release of ChatGPT in November 2022 by OpenAI, the field of higher education was rudely awakened to the revolutionary impact of generative AI on the traditional means of assessing academic performance. New – and ever-improving – “large language models” (LLMs) are now capable of on-demand generation of coherent, comprehensive and academic-grade content - be it in the form of (long-format) text, code or mathematical symbols. Many universities have, as yet, not officially positioned themselves with respect to these new developments and those that have, did so in strikingly diverse ways, from outright bans on any form of AI to investigating how AI can be leveraged by students and staff alike to enhance the academic learning process. This workshop aims to guide participants in the process of 1) gaining awareness of the potential, limitations and pitfalls of AI tools; 2) critically assessing these tools within the framework of participants’ (domain-specific) practices for teaching, learning and assessment; 3) comparing observations and sharing opinions with co-practitioners in the domain; and 4) developing a position towards these new technologies and translating this position into (tentative) policy guidelines, either on a personal or institutional level. With the advent of Generative AI technologies like LLMs and image generators, there will be an unprecedented rise in synthetic information which requires detection. While deepfake content can be identified by considering biological cues, this article proposes a technique for the detection of AI generated text using vocabulary, syntactic, semantic and stylistic features of the input data and detecting AI generated images through the use of a CNN model. The performance of these models is also evaluated and benchmarked with other comparative models. The ML Olympiad Competition dataset from Kaggle is used in a BERT Model for text detection and the CNN model is trained on the CIFAKE dataset to detect AI generated images. It can be concluded that in the upcoming era, AI generated content will be omnipresent and no single model will truly be able to detect all AI generated content especially when these technologies are getting better. APIs have intricate relations that can be described in text and represented as knowledge graphs to aid software engineering tasks. Existing relation extraction methods have limitations, such as limited API text corpus and affected by the characteristics of the input text.To address these limitations, we propose utilizing large language models (LLMs) (e.g., GPT-3.5) as a neural knowledge base for API relation inference. This approach leverages the entire Web used to pre-train LLMs as a knowledge base and is insensitive to the context and complexity of input texts. To ensure accurate inference, we design our analytic flow as an AI Chain with three AI modules: API FQN Parser, API Knowledge Extractor, and API Relation Decider. The accuracy of the API FQN parser and API Relation Decider module are 0.81 and 0.83, respectively. Using the generative capacity of the LLM and our approach's inference capability, we achieve an average F1 value of 0.76 under the three datasets, significantly higher than the state-of-the-art method's average F1 value of 0.40. Compared to CoT-based method, our AI Chain design improves the inference reliability by 67%, and the AI-crowd-intelligence strategy enhances the robustness of our approach by 26%. Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) provides unprecedented opportunities to improve injury surveillance systems in many ways, including the curation and publication of information related to agricultural injuries and illnesses. This editorial explores the feasibility and implication of ChatGPT integration in an international sentinel agricultural injury surveillance system, AgInjuryNews, highlighting that AI integration may enhance workflows by reducing human and financial resources and increasing outputs. In the coming years, text intensive natural language reports in AgInjuryNews and similar systems could be a rich source for data for ChatGPT or other more customized and fine-tuned LLMs. By harnessing the capabilities of AI and NLP, teams could potentially streamline the process of data analysis, report generation, and public dissemination, ultimately contributing to improved agricultural injury prevention efforts, well beyond any manually driven efforts. This workshop aims to unite experts and practitioners in XR and AI to envision the future of AI-enabled virtual, augmented, and mixed reality experiences. Our expansive discussion includes a variety of key topics: Generative XR, Large Language Models (LLMs) for XR, Adaptive and Context-Aware XR, Explainable AI for XR, and harnessing AI to enhance and prototype XR experiences. We aim to identify the opportunities and challenges of how recent advances of AI could bring new XR experiences, which cannot be done before, with a keen focus on the seamless blending of our digital and physical worlds. In the rapid expansion of Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, AI-generated text detection models have made substantial advancements, marking meaningful progress in several research and industrial applications. However, the performance of these models in the Semitic languages' context, especially regarding diacritic usage, continues to be inadequately explored. One of these Semitic languages that is still commonly used is Arabic language. To study the performance of the recent AI-generated text detection models on the Arabic language, this paper introduces the AIRABIC dataset, a combination of 1000 examples encompassing 500 human-written passages from 41 unique sources and an equal number of AI-generated texts from the OpenAI's Generative Pre-trained Transformer version 3.5 (GPT-3.5 Turbo ChatGPT). This study focuses on the performance evaluation of two prominent AI-generated text detectors, GPTZero and OpenAI's Text Classifier. Our findings reveal that GPTZero achieves an overall accuracy rate of 62.6%, while the OpenAI Text Classifier exhibits a 50% rate of biased categorizations when analyzing human-written text. Further analysis shows the design gaps of these detectors, especially for identifying human-written Arabic text, mainly when diacritics are involved. The detection accuracy for human-written texts with diacritics is as low as 30% for GPTZero and 0% for the OpenAI Text Classifier. Results also show the potential of diacritics to reduce the detectors' accuracy and the need to handle them in the detectors' design process. The quality of writing in a second language (L2) is one of the indicators of the level of proficiency for many college students to be eligible for departmental studies. Although certain software programs, such as Intelligent Essay Assessor or IntelliMetric, have been introduced to evaluate second-language writing quality, an overall assessment of writing proficiency is still largely achieved through trained human raters. The question that needs to be addressed today is whether generative artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms of large language models (LLMs) could facilitate and possibly replace human raters when it comes to the burdensome task of assessing student-written academic work. For this purpose, first-year college students (n=43) were given a paragraph writing task which was evaluated through the same writing criteria introduced to the generative pre-trained transformer, ChatGPT-3.5, and two human raters. The scores assigned by two human raters (Human Rater A: m=86.51, SD=13.61, range=40-100, Human Rater B: m=73.49, SD=17.98, range=10-100) revealed a statistically significant small to moderate positive correlation (r (41)=.36, p=.017). A slight but significant level of agreement was observed in the scores assigned by ChatGPT-3.5 and one of the human raters (κ=.124, p=.036). The findings suggest that reliable results could be obtained when the scores of an application and a human rater are considered and that ChatGPT may potentially assist human raters in assessing L2 college writing. BACKGROUND
Crafting quality assessment questions in medical education is a crucial yet time-consuming, expertise-driven undertaking that calls for innovative solutions. Large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT (Chat Generative Pre-Trained Transformer), present a promising yet underexplored avenue for such innovations.


AIMS
This study explores the utility of ChatGPT to generate diverse, high-quality medical questions, focusing on multiple-choice questions (MCQs) as an illustrative example, to increase educator's productivity and enable self-directed learning for students.


DESCRIPTION
Leveraging 12 strategies, we demonstrate how ChatGPT can be effectively used to generate assessment questions aligned with Bloom's taxonomy and core knowledge domains while promoting best practices in assessment design.


CONCLUSION
Integrating LLM tools like ChatGPT into generating medical assessment questions like MCQs augments but does not replace human expertise. With continual instruction refinement, AI can produce high-standard questions. Yet, the onus of ensuring ultimate quality and accuracy remains with subject matter experts, affirming the irreplaceable value of human involvement in the artificial intelligence-driven education paradigm. Artificial intelligence is overhauling the publication and textual production. Textual production with Large Language Models (LLMs) is more sophisticated and closer to human knowledge production thanks to its autoregressive nature. AI models by OpenAI such as the Generative Pre-trained Transformer 3 (GPT-3) and its iterations use deep learning to produce more human-like text. Such texts invite all kinds of problems that are not new to the human text-production system. Research shows that the output of such models tends to be biased toward a particular gender, race and ethnicity. This paper explores substantial texts produced by AI including articles, fiction, columns, opinion pieces etc. published in major journals and magazines to understand the nuances of such texts. Moreover, the paper will attempt to understand such features of AI-generated text by presenting the results of a particular set of instructions (prompt) to the LLM. These text outputs will be studied to demonstrate how AI-generated texts pave the way for a “post-post author” era, echoing Barthes’ notion of the “Death of the Author”. The scope, usability and limitations of the AI’s textual production will also be investigated. Stable Diffusion revolutionised image creation from descriptive text. GPT-2, GPT-3(.5) and GPT-4 demonstrated astonishing performance across a variety of language tasks. ChatGPT introduced such language models to the general public. It is now clear that large language models (LLMs) are here to stay, and will bring about drastic change in the whole ecosystem of online text and images. In this paper we consider what the future might hold. What will happen to GPT-{n} once LLMs contribute much of the language found online? We find that use of model-generated content in training causes irreversible defects in the resulting models, where tails of the original content distribution disappear. We refer to this effect as Model Collapse and show that it can occur in Variational Autoencoders, Gaussian Mixture Models and LLMs. We build theoretical intuition behind the phenomenon and portray its ubiquity amongst all learned generative models. We demonstrate that it has to be taken seriously if we are to sustain the benefits of training from large-scale data scraped from the web. Indeed, the value of data collected about genuine human interactions with systems will be increasingly valuable in the presence of content generated by LLMs in data crawled from the Internet. The integration of large language models (LLMs), such as those in the Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPT) series, into medical education has the potential to transform learning experiences for students and elevate their knowledge, skills, and competence. Drawing on a wealth of professional and academic experience, we propose that LLMs hold promise for revolutionizing medical curriculum development, teaching methodologies, personalized study plans and learning materials, student assessments, and more. However, we also critically examine the challenges that such integration might pose by addressing issues of algorithmic bias, overreliance, plagiarism, misinformation, inequity, privacy, and copyright concerns in medical education. As we navigate the shift from an information-driven educational paradigm to an artificial intelligence (AI)–driven educational paradigm, we argue that it is paramount to understand both the potential and the pitfalls of LLMs in medical education. This paper thus offers our perspective on the opportunities and challenges of using LLMs in this context. We believe that the insights gleaned from this analysis will serve as a foundation for future recommendations and best practices in the field, fostering the responsible and effective use of AI technologies in medical education. Recent AI-assistant agents, such as ChatGPT, predominantly rely on supervised fine-tuning (SFT) with human annotations and reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) to align the output of large language models (LLMs) with human intentions, ensuring they are helpful, ethical, and reliable. However, this dependence can significantly constrain the true potential of AI-assistant agents due to the high cost of obtaining human supervision and the related issues on quality, reliability, diversity, self-consistency, and undesirable biases. To address these challenges, we propose a novel approach called SELF-ALIGN, which combines principle-driven reasoning and the generative power of LLMs for the self-alignment of AI agents with minimal human supervision. Our approach encompasses four stages: first, we use an LLM to generate synthetic prompts, and a topic-guided method to augment the prompt diversity; second, we use a small set of human-written principles for AI models to follow, and guide the LLM through in-context learning from demonstrations (of principles application) to produce helpful, ethical, and reliable responses to user's queries; third, we fine-tune the original LLM with the high-quality self-aligned responses so that the resulting model can generate desirable responses for each query directly without the principle set and the demonstrations anymore; and finally, we offer a refinement step to address the issues of overly-brief or indirect responses. Applying SELF-ALIGN to the LLaMA-65b base language model, we develop an AI assistant named Dromedary. With fewer than 300 lines of human annotations (including<200 seed prompts, 16 generic principles, and 5 exemplars for in-context learning). Dromedary significantly surpasses the performance of several state-of-the-art AI systems, including Text-Davinci-003 and Alpaca, on benchmark datasets with various settings. Despite the stunning ability to generate high-quality images by recent text-to-image models, current approaches often struggle to effectively compose objects with different attributes and relationships into a complex and coherent scene. We propose T2I-CompBench, a comprehensive benchmark for open-world compositional text-to-image generation, consisting of 6,000 compositional text prompts from 3 categories (attribute binding, object relationships, and complex compositions) and 6 sub-categories (color binding, shape binding, texture binding, spatial relationships, non-spatial relationships, and complex compositions). We further propose several evaluation metrics specifically designed to evaluate compositional text-to-image generation and explore the potential and limitations of multimodal LLMs for evaluation. We introduce a new approach, Generative mOdel fine-tuning with Reward-driven Sample selection (GORS), to boost the compositional text-to-image generation abilities of pretrained text-to-image models. Extensive experiments and evaluations are conducted to benchmark previous methods on T2I-CompBench, and to validate the effectiveness of our proposed evaluation metrics and GORS approach. Project page is available at https://karine-h.github.io/T2I-CompBench/. Prompt engineering is a relatively new field of research that refers to the practice of designing, refining, and implementing prompts or instructions that guide the output of large language models (LLMs) to help in various tasks. With the emergence of LLMs, the most popular one being ChatGPT that has attracted the attention of over a 100 million users in only 2 months, artificial intelligence (AI), especially generative AI, has become accessible for the masses. This is an unprecedented paradigm shift not only because of the use of AI becoming more widespread but also due to the possible implications of LLMs in health care. As more patients and medical professionals use AI-based tools, LLMs being the most popular representatives of that group, it seems inevitable to address the challenge to improve this skill. This paper summarizes the current state of research about prompt engineering and, at the same time, aims at providing practical recommendations for the wide range of health care professionals to improve their interactions with LLMs. The development of large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT has brought a lot of attention recently. However, their evaluation in the benchmark academic datasets remains under-explored due to the difficulty of evaluating the generative outputs produced by this model against the ground truth. In this paper, we aim to present a thorough evaluation of ChatGPT's performance on diverse academic datasets, covering tasks like question-answering, text summarization, code generation, commonsense reasoning, mathematical problem-solving, machine translation, bias detection, and ethical considerations. Specifically, we evaluate ChatGPT across 140 tasks and analyze 255K responses it generates in these datasets. This makes our work the largest evaluation of ChatGPT in NLP benchmarks. In short, our study aims to validate the strengths and weaknesses of ChatGPT in various tasks and provide insights for future research using LLMs. We also report a new emergent ability to follow multi-query instructions that we mostly found in ChatGPT and other instruction-tuned models. Our extensive evaluation shows that even though ChatGPT is capable of performing a wide variety of tasks, and may obtain impressive performance in several benchmark datasets, it is still far from achieving the ability to reliably solve many challenging tasks. By providing a thorough assessment of ChatGPT's performance across diverse NLP tasks, this paper sets the stage for a targeted deployment of ChatGPT-like LLMs in real-world applications. We propose a conceptual perspective on prompts for Large Language Models (LLMs) that distinguishes between (1) diegetic prompts (part of the narrative, e.g. “Once upon a time, I saw a fox...”), and (2) non-diegetic prompts (external, e.g. “Write about the adventures of the fox.”). With this lens, we study how 129 crowd workers on Prolific write short texts with different user interfaces (1 vs 3 suggestions, with/out non-diegetic prompts; implemented with GPT-3): When the interface offered multiple suggestions and provided an option for non-diegetic prompting, participants preferred choosing from multiple suggestions over controlling them via non-diegetic prompts. When participants provided non-diegetic prompts it was to ask for inspiration, topics or facts. Single suggestions in particular were guided both with diegetic and non-diegetic information. This work informs human-AI interaction with generative models by revealing that (1) writing non-diegetic prompts requires effort, (2) people combine diegetic and non-diegetic prompting, and (3) they use their draft (i.e. diegetic information) and suggestion timing to strategically guide LLMs. Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) can improve the quality of large language model's (LLM) outputs by aligning them with human preferences. We propose a simple algorithm for aligning LLMs with human preferences inspired by growing batch reinforcement learning (RL), which we call Reinforced Self-Training (ReST). Given an initial LLM policy, ReST produces a dataset by generating samples from the policy, which are then used to improve the LLM policy using offline RL algorithms. ReST is more efficient than typical online RLHF methods because the training dataset is produced offline, which allows data reuse. While ReST is a general approach applicable to all generative learning settings, we focus on its application to machine translation. Our results show that ReST can substantially improve translation quality, as measured by automated metrics and human evaluation on machine translation benchmarks in a compute and sample-efficient manner. The utilization of artificial intelligence (AI) in clinical practice has increased and is evidently contributing to improved diagnostic accuracy, optimized treatment planning, and improved patient outcomes. The rapid evolution of AI, especially generative AI and large language models (LLMs), have reignited the discussions about their potential impact on the healthcare industry, particularly regarding the role of healthcare providers. Concerning questions, “can AI replace doctors?” and “will doctors who are using AI replace those who are not using it?” have been echoed. To shed light on this debate, this article focuses on emphasizing the augmentative role of AI in healthcare, underlining that AI is aimed to complement, rather than replace, doctors and healthcare providers. The fundamental solution emerges with the human–AI collaboration, which combines the cognitive strengths of healthcare providers with the analytical capabilities of AI. A human-in-the-loop (HITL) approach ensures that the AI systems are guided, communicated, and supervised by human expertise, thereby maintaining safety and quality in healthcare services. Finally, the adoption can be forged further by the organizational process informed by the HITL approach to improve multidisciplinary teams in the loop. AI can create a paradigm shift in healthcare by complementing and enhancing the skills of healthcare providers, ultimately leading to improved service quality, patient outcomes, and a more efficient healthcare system. Recent advances in large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, have led to highly sophisticated conversation agents. However, these models suffer from"hallucinations,"where the model generates false or fabricated information. Addressing this challenge is crucial, particularly with AI-driven platforms being adopted across various sectors. In this paper, we propose a novel method to recognize and flag instances when LLMs perform outside their domain knowledge, and ensuring users receive accurate information. We find that the use of context combined with embedded tags can successfully combat hallucinations within generative language models. To do this, we baseline hallucination frequency in no-context prompt-response pairs using generated URLs as easily-tested indicators of fabricated data. We observed a significant reduction in overall hallucination when context was supplied along with question prompts for tested generative engines. Lastly, we evaluated how placing tags within contexts impacted model responses and were able to eliminate hallucinations in responses with 98.88% effectiveness. As artificial intelligence (AI) continues to evolve and mature, it is increasingly finding applications in the field of healthcare, particularly in specialties like radiology that are data-heavy and image-focused. Language learning models (LLMs) such as OpenAI's Generative Pre-trained Transformer-4 (GPT-4) are new in the field of medicine and there is a paucity of literature regarding the possible utilities of GPT-4 given its novelty. We aim to present an in-depth exploration of the role of GPT-4, an advanced language model, in radiology. Giving the GPT-4 model prompts for generating reports, template generation, enhancing clinical decision-making, and suggesting captivating titles for research articles, patient communication, and education, can occasionally be quite generic, and at times, it may present factually incorrect content, which could lead to errors. The responses were then analyzed in detail regarding their potential utility in day-to-day radiologist workflow, patient education, and research processes. Further research is required to evaluate LLMs' accuracy and safety in clinical practice and to develop comprehensive guidelines for their implementation. The research field of Information Retrieval (IR) has evolved significantly, expanding beyond traditional search to meet diverse user information needs. Recently, Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated exceptional capabilities in text understanding, generation, and knowledge inference, opening up exciting avenues for IR research. LLMs not only facilitate generative retrieval but also offer improved solutions for user understanding, model evaluation, and user-system interactions. More importantly, the synergistic relationship among IR models, LLMs, and humans forms a new technical paradigm that is more powerful for information seeking. IR models provide real-time and relevant information, LLMs contribute internal knowledge, and humans play a central role of demanders and evaluators to the reliability of information services. Nevertheless, significant challenges exist, including computational costs, credibility concerns, domain-specific limitations, and ethical considerations. To thoroughly discuss the transformative impact of LLMs on IR research, the Chinese IR community conducted a strategic workshop in April 2023, yielding valuable insights. This paper provides a summary of the workshop's outcomes, including the rethinking of IR's core values, the mutual enhancement of LLMs and IR, the proposal of a novel IR technical paradigm, and open challenges. The emergence of large-scale pre-trained language models has revolutionized various AI research domains. Transformers-based Large Language Models (LLMs) have gradually replaced CNNs and RNNs to unify fields of computer vision and natural language processing. Compared with independent data like images, videos or texts, graphs usually contain rich structural and relational information. Meanwhile, languages, especially natural language, being one of the most expressive mediums, excels in describing complex structures. However, existing work on incorporating graph problems into the generative language modeling framework remains very limited. Considering the rising prominence of LLMs, it becomes essential to explore whether LLMs can also replace GNNs as the foundation model for graphs. In this paper, we propose InstructGLM (Instruction-finetuned Graph Language Model) with highly scalable prompts based on natural language instructions. We use natural language to describe multi-scale geometric structure of the graph and then instruction finetune an LLM to perform graph tasks, which enables Generative Graph Learning. Our method surpasses all GNN baselines on ogbn-arxiv, Cora and PubMed datasets, underscoring its effectiveness and sheds light on generative LLMs as new foundation model for graph machine learning. Our code is available at https://github.com/agiresearch/InstructGLM. The emergence and rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs), represented by OpenAI’s Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT), has brought up new opportunities across various industries and disciplines. These cutting-edge technologies are transforming the way we interact with information, communicate, and solve complex problems. We conducted a pilot study exploring making maps with ChatGPT, a popular artificial intelligence (AI) chatbot. Specifically, we tested designing thematic maps using given or public geospatial data, as well as creating mental maps purely using textual descriptions of geographic space. We conclude that ChatGPT provides a useful alternative solution for mapping given its unique advantages, such as lowering the barrier to producing maps, boosting the efficiency of massive map production, and understanding geographical space with its spatial thinking capability. However, mapping with ChatGPT still has limitations at the current stage, such as its unequal benefits for different users and dependence on user intervention for quality control. While Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable potential in natural language generation and instruction following, a persistent challenge lies in their susceptibility to"hallucinations", which erodes trust in their outputs. Although Uncertainty Quantification (UQ) presents a promising solution, its accurate implementation within the context of LLMs remains a significant hurdle. To address this critical roadblock, our research originates from a fundamental heuristic insight: tokens within auto-regressive LLM-generated text do not equally reflect the underlying meaning. Some tokens carry greater relevance and representativeness than others, owing to the phenomenon of"linguistic redundancy", wherein a select few keywords suffice to convey the essence of lengthy sentences. Regrettably, existing methodologies treat all tokens with equal importance when estimating uncertainty, disregarding these inherent generative inequalities. Our analysis reveals a significant issue with state-of-the-art: numerous tokens (and sentences) of limited semantic significance receive equal or even excessive weighting during uncertainty estimation. To rectify this bias, we propose to jointly Shifting Attention to more Relevant (SAR) components, at both the token- and the sentence-levels for accurate uncertainty estimation. We conduct extensive experiments involving a range of popular"off-the-shelf"LLMs, including instruction-tuned LLMs such as Vicuna, WizardLM, and LLaMA-2-chat, as well as pretrained LLMs like OPT and LLaMA, with model sizes extending up to 33B parameters. We carry out evaluation across various free-form question-answering tasks, encompassing domains such as reading comprehension, science Q&A, and medical Q&A. Our experimental results demonstrate the superior performance of SAR in addressing the challenges of uncertainty estimation within the realm of LLMs. The development of large language models (LLMs) is a recent success in the field of generative artificial intelligence (AI). They are computer models able to perform a wide range of natural language processing tasks, including content generation, question answering, or language translation. In recent months, a growing number of studies aimed to assess their potential applications in the field of medicine, including cancer care. In this mini review, we described the present published evidence for using LLMs in oncology. All the available studies assessed ChatGPT, an advanced language model developed by OpenAI, alone or compared to other LLMs, such as Google Bard, Chatsonic, and Perplexity. Although ChatGPT could provide adequate information on the screening or the management of specific solid tumors, it also demonstrated a significant error rate and a tendency toward providing obsolete data. Therefore, an accurate, expert-driven verification process remains mandatory to avoid the potential for misinformation and incorrect evidence. Overall, although this new generative AI-based technology has the potential to revolutionize the field of medicine, including that of cancer care, it will be necessary to develop rules to guide the application of these tools to maximize benefits and minimize risks. When large language models (LLMs) were introduced to the public at large in late 2022 with ChatGPT (OpenAI), the interest was unprecedented, with more than 1 billion unique users within 90 days. Until the introduction of Generative Pre-trained Transformer 4 (GPT-4) in March 2023, these LLMs only contained a single mode—text. As medicine is a multimodal discipline, the potential future versions of LLMs that can handle multimodality—meaning that they could interpret and generate not only text but also images, videos, sound, and even comprehensive documents—can be conceptualized as a significant evolution in the field of artificial intelligence (AI). This paper zooms in on the new potential of generative AI, a new form of AI that also includes tools such as LLMs, through the achievement of multimodal inputs of text, images, and speech on health care’s future. We present several futuristic scenarios to illustrate the potential path forward as multimodal LLMs (M-LLMs) could represent the gateway between health care professionals and using AI for medical purposes. It is important to point out, though, that despite the unprecedented potential of generative AI in the form of M-LLMs, the human touch in medicine remains irreplaceable. AI should be seen as a tool that can augment health care professionals rather than replace them. It is also important to consider the human aspects of health care—empathy, understanding, and the doctor-patient relationship—when deploying AI. Large language models (LLMs) and generative AI have played a transformative role in computer research and applications. Controversy has arisen as to whether these models output copyrighted data, which can occur if the data the models are trained on is copyrighted. LLMs are built on the transformer neural network architecture, which in turn relies on a mathematical computation called Attention that uses the softmax function.

In this paper, we observe that large language model training and optimization can be seen as a softmax regression problem. We then establish a method of efficiently performing softmax regression, in a way that prevents the regression function from generating copyright data. This establishes a theoretical method of training large language models in a way that avoids generating copyright data. AIM
Chatbot Generative Pre-trained Transformer (ChatGPT) is a generative artificial intelligence (AI) software based on large language models (LLMs), designed to simulate human conversations and generate novel content based on the training data it has been exposed to. The aim of this study was to evaluate the consistency and accuracy of ChatGPT-generated answers to clinical questions in endodontics, compared to answers provided by human experts.


METHODOLOGY
Ninety-one dichotomous (yes/no) questions were designed and categorized into three levels of difficulty. Twenty questions were randomly selected from each difficulty level. Sixty answers were generated by ChatGPT for each question. Two endodontic experts independently answered the 60 questions. Statistical analysis was performed using the SPSS program to calculate the consistency and accuracy of the answers generated by ChatGPT compared to the experts. Confidence intervals (95%) and standard deviations were used to estimate variability.


RESULTS
The answers generated by ChatGPT showed high consistency (85.44%). No significant differences in consistency were found based on question difficulty. In terms of answer accuracy, ChatGPT achieved an average accuracy of 57.33%. However, significant differences in accuracy were observed based on question difficulty, with lower accuracy for easier questions.


CONCLUSIONS
Currently, ChatGPT is not capable of replacing dentists in clinical decision-making. As ChatGPT's performance improves through deep learning, it is expected to become more useful and effective in the field of endodontics. However, careful attention and ongoing evaluation are needed to ensure its accuracy, reliability and safety in endodontics. —The evolution of generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) constitutes a turning point in reshaping the future of technology in different aspects. Wireless networks in particular, with the blooming of self-evolving networks, represent a rich field for exploiting GenAI and reaping several benefits that can fundamentally change the way how wireless networks are designed and operated nowadays. To be specific, large language models (LLMs), a subfield of GenAI, are envisioned to open up a new era of autonomous wireless networks, in which a multimodal large model trained over various Telecom data, can be fine-tuned to perform several downstream tasks, eliminating the need for dedicated AI models for each task and paving the way for the realization of artificial general intelligence (AGI)- empowered wireless networks. In this article, we aim to unfold the opportunities that can be reaped from integrating LLMs into the Telecom domain. In particular, we aim to put a forward-looking vision on a new realm of possibilities and applications of LLMs in future wireless networks, defining directions for designing, training, testing, and deploying Telecom LLMs, and reveal insights on the associated theoretical and practical challenges. Large language models (LLMs) are a type of generative artificial intelligence (AI) designed to produce text‐based content. LLMs use deep learning techniques and massively large data sets to understand, summarize, generate, and predict new text. LLMs caught the public eye in early 2023 when ChatGPT (the first consumer facing LLM) was released. LLM technologies are driven by recent advances in deep‐learning AI techniques, where language models are trained on extremely large text data from the internet and then re‐used for downstream tasks with limited fine‐tuning required. They offer exciting opportunities for evaluators to automate and accelerate time‐consuming tasks involving text analytics and text generation. We estimate that over two‐thirds of evaluation tasks will be affected by LLMs in the next 5 years. Use‐case examples include summarizing text data, extracting key information from text, analyzing and classifying text content, writing text, and translation. Despite the advances, the technologies pose significant challenges and risks. Because LLM technologies are generally trained on text from the internet, they tend to perpetuate biases (racism, sexism, ethnocentrism, and more) and exclusion of non‐majority languages. Current tools like ChatGPT have not been specifically developed for monitoring, evaluation, research, and learning (MERL) purposes, possibly limiting their accuracy and usefulness for evaluation. In addition, technical limitations and challenges with bias can lead to real world harm. To overcome these technical challenges and ethical risks, the evaluation community will need to work collaboratively with the data science community to co‐develop tools and processes and to ensure the application of quality and ethical standards. I recently read the article by Dr. Park in the Korean Journal of Radiology addressing the integration of generative artificial intelligence (AI) in scientific publications [1]. The swift rise of AI, particularly advanced language models like ChatGPT, has showcased its proficiency in generating coherent, adaptable text. This capability, especially in the domain of scientific writing, has sparked discussions regarding AI's potential role in revolutionizing the process of drafting scientific manuscripts [2,3]. I appreciate the comprehensive and thoughtful approach Dr. Park adopted in exploring both the challenges and opportunities presented by large language models (LLMs) and other AI tools in this rapidly evolving domain of scientific writing [4]. With this foundation, I wish to contribute additional insights on the topic. With the increasing influence of LLMs in scientific writing, there emerges a pressing need for specific education on their strengths and limitations. Traditionally, universities and libraries have provided guidance on scientific writing, ethics, and literature searches. It has now become essential to incorporate education on LLMs into these instructional sessions. A prominent limitation of LLMs, commonly referred to as “hallucination,” arises when they generate seemingly credible but fabricated information [5]. This is especially concerning when LLMs create fictitious citations [6]. Such potential pitfalls necessitate heightened awareness for researchers and professionals utilizing these tools. Furthermore, I am in alignment with Dr. Park’s perspective on the role of LLMs in improving the linguistic quality of submissions. The dominance of English in scientific discourse, while streamlining global communication, also introduces barriers to non-native speakers, potentially sidelining valuable research and perspectives due to linguistic challenges [7]. This is particularly relevant considering a recent study, which highlights the challenges faced by non-native English speakers in the scientific community [8]. As the study suggests, non-native speakers often invest more effort in conducting scientific activities in English. Using LLMs as linguistic aids can bridge this language gap, ensuring that their invaluable research and insights are not marginalized by linguistic constraints. While the potential of LLMs in drafting initial manuscripts is evident, human authors must continue to play a pivotal role in the creative process [1,9]. LLMs can be instrumental in shaping these drafts, but the final review, validation, and approval should undoubtedly be a human endeavor [10]. Moreover, while capitalizing on the benefits of LLMs, it is essential to acquire the novel skills of meticulously reviewing and adeptly editing their outputs. Our roles as authors will inevitably expand, heightening our responsibilities in the process. In conclusion, the guidelines proposed, with a focus on human oversight and ethical considerations, are well-poised to guide the responsible use of generative AI in scientific publications [4]. Clear guidelines and continuous education are the cornerstone of ensuring the ethical and effective incorporation of AI in our revered scientific community. The recent progress of artificial intelligence (AI) opens up new frontiers in the possibility of automating many tasks involved in Telecom networks design, implementation, and deployment. This has been further pushed forward with the evolution of generative artificial intelligence (AI), including the emergence of large language models (LLMs), which is believed to be the cornerstone toward realizing self-governed, interactive AI agents. Motivated by this, in this paper, we aim to adapt the paradigm of LLMs to the Telecom domain. In particular, we fine-tune several LLMs including BERT, distilled BERT, RoBERTa and GPT-2, to the Telecom domain languages, and demonstrate a use case for identifying the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) standard working groups. We consider training the selected models on 3GPP technical documents (Tdoc) pertinent to years 2009-2019 and predict the Tdoc categories in years 2020-2023. The results demonstrate that fine-tuning BERT and RoBERTa model achieves 84.6% accuracy, while GPT-2 model achieves 83% in identifying 3GPP working groups. The distilled BERT model with around 50% less parameters achieves similar performance as others. This corroborates that fine-tuning pretrained LLM can effectively identify the categories of Telecom language. The developed framework shows a stepping stone towards realizing intent-driven and self-evolving wireless networks from Telecom languages, and paves the way for the implementation of generative AI in the Telecom domain. The assessment of cybersecurity Capture-The-Flag (CTF) exercises involves participants finding text strings or ``flags'' by exploiting system vulnerabilities. Large Language Models (LLMs) are natural-language models trained on vast amounts of words to understand and generate text; they can perform well on many CTF challenges. Such LLMs are freely available to students. In the context of CTF exercises in the classroom, this raises concerns about academic integrity. Educators must understand LLMs' capabilities to modify their teaching to accommodate generative AI assistance. This research investigates the effectiveness of LLMs, particularly in the realm of CTF challenges and questions. Here we evaluate three popular LLMs, OpenAI ChatGPT, Google Bard, and Microsoft Bing. First, we assess the LLMs' question-answering performance on five Cisco certifications with varying difficulty levels. Next, we qualitatively study the LLMs' abilities in solving CTF challenges to understand their limitations. We report on the experience of using the LLMs for seven test cases in all five types of CTF challenges. In addition, we demonstrate how jailbreak prompts can bypass and break LLMs' ethical safeguards. The paper concludes by discussing LLM's impact on CTF exercises and its implications. The advent of ChatGPT by OpenAI has prompted extensive discourse on its potential implications for science and higher education. While the impact on education has been a primary focus, there is limited empirical research on the effects of large language models (LLMs) and LLM-based chatbots on science and scientific practice. To investigate this further, we conducted a Delphi study involving 72 researchers specializing in AI and digitization. The study focused on applications and limitations of LLMs, their effects on the science system, ethical and legal considerations, and the required competencies for their effective use. Our findings highlight the transformative potential of LLMs in science, particularly in administrative, creative, and analytical tasks. However, risks related to bias, misinformation, and quality assurance need to be addressed through proactive regulation and science education. This research contributes to informed discussions on the impact of generative AI in science and helps identify areas for future action. Long foretold and often dismissed, artificial intelligence (AI) is now reshaping how we work and interact as a society.1 For every claim that AI is overhyped and underperforming, only weeks or months seem to pass before a new breakthrough asks us to reevaluate what is possible. Most recent, it is the very public arrival of large language models (LLMs) such as the generative pretrained transformers (GPTs) in ChatGPT. In this perspective article, we explore the implications of this technology for health care and ask how ready the Australian health care system is to respond to the opportunities and risks that AI brings. Despite constituting 65% of all internet traffic in 2023, video content is underrepresented in generative AI research. Meanwhile, recent large language models (LLMs) have become increasingly integrated with capabilities in the visual modality. Integrating video with LLMs is a natural next step, so how can this gap be bridged? To advance video reasoning, we propose a new research direction of VideoCOT on video keyframes, which leverages the multimodal generative abilities of vision-language models to enhance video reasoning while reducing the computational complexity of processing hundreds or thousands of frames. We introduce VIP, an inference-time dataset that can be used to evaluate VideoCOT, containing 1) a variety of real-life videos with keyframes and corresponding unstructured and structured scene descriptions, and 2) two new video reasoning tasks: video infilling and scene prediction. We benchmark various vision-language models on VIP, demonstrating the potential to use vision-language models and LLMs to enhance video chain of thought reasoning. Against the global need for increased access to mental services, health organisations are looking to technological advances to improve the delivery of care and lower costs. Since November 2022, with the public launch of OpenAI’s ChatGPT, the field of generative artificial intelligence (AI) has received expanding attention. Although generative AI itself is not new, technical advances and the increased accessibility of large language models (LLMs) (eg, OpenAI’s GPT-4 and Google’s Bard) suggest use of these tools could be clinically significant. LLMs are an application of generative AI technology that can summarise and generate content based on training on vast data sets. Unlike search engines, which provide internet links in response to typed entries, chatbots that rely on generative language models can simulate dialogue that resembles human conversations. We examine the potential promise and the risks of using LLMs in mental healthcare today, focusing on their scope to impact mental healthcare, including global equity in the delivery of care. Although we caution that LLMs should not be used to disintermediate mental health clinicians, we signal how—if carefully implemented—in the long term these tools could reap benefits for patients and health professionals. Autonomous conversational agents, i.e. chatbots, are becoming an increasingly common mechanism for enterprises to provide support to customers and partners. In order to rate chatbots, especially ones powered by Generative AI tools like Large Language Models (LLMs) we need to be able to accurately assess their performance. This is where chatbot benchmarking becomes important. In this paper, we propose the use of a novel benchmark that we call the E2E (End to End) benchmark, and show how the E2E benchmark can be used to evaluate accuracy and usefulness of the answers provided by chatbots, especially ones powered by LLMs. We evaluate an example chatbot at different levels of sophistication based on both our E2E benchmark, as well as other available metrics commonly used in the state of art, and observe that the proposed benchmark show better results compared to others. In addition, while some metrics proved to be unpredictable, the metric associated with the E2E benchmark, which uses cosine similarity performed well in evaluating chatbots. The performance of our best models shows that there are several benefits of using the cosine similarity score as a metric in the E2E benchmark. In this article, we report the findings of the second shared task on Automatic Minuting (AutoMin) held as a Generation Challenge at the 16th International Natural Language Generation (INLG) Conference 2023. The second Automatic Minuting shared task is a successor to the first AutoMin which took place in 2021. The primary objective of the AutoMin shared task is to garner participation of the speech and natural language processing and generation community to create automatic methods for generating minutes from multi-party meetings. Five teams from diverse backgrounds participated in the shared task this year. A lot has changed in the Generative AI landscape since the last AutoMin especially with the emergence and wide adoption of Large Language Models (LLMs) to different downstream tasks. Most of the contributions are based on some form of an LLM and we are also adding current outputs of GPT4 as a benchmark. Furthermore, we examine the applicability of GPT-4 for automatic scoring of minutes. Compared to the previous instance of AutoMin, we also add another domain, the minutes for EU Parliament sessions, and we experiment with a more fine-grained manual evaluation. More details on the event can be found at https://ufal.github.io/automin-2023/. The emergence of ChatGPT has sensitized the general public, including the legal profession, to large language models' (LLMs) potential uses (e.g., document drafting, question answering, and summarization). Although recent studies have shown how well the technology performs in diverse semantic annotation tasks focused on legal texts, an influx of newer, more capable (GPT-4) or cost-effective (GPT-3.5-turbo) models requires another analysis. This paper addresses recent developments in the ability of LLMs to semantically annotate legal texts in zero-shot learning settings. Given the transition to mature generative AI systems, we examine the performance of GPT-4 and GPT-3.5-turbo(-16k), comparing it to the previous generation of GPT models, on three legal text annotation tasks involving diverse documents such as adjudicatory opinions, contractual clauses, or statutory provisions. We also compare the models' performance and cost to better understand the trade-offs. We found that the GPT-4 model clearly outperforms the GPT-3.5 models on two of the three tasks. The cost-effective GPT-3.5-turbo matches the performance of the 20× more expensive text-davinci-003 model. While one can annotate multiple data points within a single prompt, the performance degrades as the size of the batch increases. This work provides valuable information relevant for many practical applications (e.g., in contract review) and research projects (e.g., in empirical legal studies). Legal scholars and practicing lawyers alike can leverage these findings to guide their decisions in integrating LLMs in a wide range of workflows involving semantic annotation of legal texts. In the past years, AI has seen many advances in the field of NLP. This has led to the emergence of LLMs, such as the now famous GPT-3.5, which revolutionise the way humans can access or generate content. Current studies on LLM-based generative tools are mainly interested in the performance of such tools in generating relevant content (code, text or image). However, ethical concerns related to the design and use of generative tools seem to be growing, impacting the public acceptability for specific tasks. This paper presents a questionnaire survey to identify the intention to use generative tools by employees of an IT company in the context of their work. This survey is based on empirical models measuring intention to use (TAM by Davis, 1989, and UTAUT2 by Venkatesh and al., 2008). Our results indicate a rather average acceptability of generative tools, although the more useful the tool is perceived to be, the higher the intention to use seems to be. Furthermore, our analyses suggest that the frequency of use of generative tools is likely to be a key factor in understanding how employees perceive these tools in the context of their work. Following on from this work, we plan to investigate the nature of the requests that may be made to these tools by specific audiences. The rapid advancement of Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), particularly Large Language Models (LLMs), has led to their widespread adoption for various natural language processing (NLP) tasks. One crucial domain ripe for innovation is the Technology-Assisted Review (TAR) process in Electronic discovery (eDiscovery). Traditionally, TAR involves manual review and classification of documents for relevance over large document collections for litigations and investigations. This process is aided by machine learning and NLP tools which require extensive training and fine-tuning. In this paper, we explore the application of LLMs to TAR, specifically for predictive coding. We experiment with out-of-the-box prompting and fine-tuning of LLMs using parameter-efficient techniques. We conduct experiments using open LLMs and compare them to commercially-licensed ones. Our experiments demonstrate that open LLMs lag behind commercially-licensed models in relevance classification using out-of-the-box prompting. However, topic-specific instruction tuning of open LLMs not only improve their effectiveness but can often outperform their commercially-licensed counterparts in performance evaluations. Additionally, we conduct a user study to gauge the preferences of our eDiscovery Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) regarding human-authored versus model-generated reasoning. We demonstrate that instruction-tuned open LLMs can generate high quality reasonings that are comparable to commercial LLMs. Financial risk prediction plays a crucial role in the financial sector. Machine learning methods have been widely applied for automatically detecting potential risks and thus saving the cost of labor. However, the development in this field is lagging behind in recent years by the following two facts: 1) the algorithms used are somewhat outdated, especially in the context of the fast advance of generative AI and large language models (LLMs); 2) the lack of a unified and open-sourced financial benchmark has impeded the related research for years. To tackle these issues, we propose FinPT and FinBench: the former is a novel approach for financial risk prediction that conduct Profile Tuning on large pretrained foundation models, and the latter is a set of high-quality datasets on financial risks such as default, fraud, and churn. In FinPT, we fill the financial tabular data into the pre-defined instruction template, obtain natural-language customer profiles by prompting LLMs, and fine-tune large foundation models with the profile text to make predictions. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed FinPT by experimenting with a range of representative strong baselines on FinBench. The analytical studies further deepen the understanding of LLMs for financial risk prediction. Large language models (LLMs) providing generative AI have become popular to support software engineers in creating, summarizing, optimizing, and documenting source code. It is still unknown how LLMs can support control engineers using typical control programming languages in programming tasks. Researchers have explored GitHub CoPilot or DeepMind AlphaCode for source code generation but did not yet tackle control logic programming. A key contribution of this paper is an exploratory study, for which we created 100 LLM prompts in 10 representative categories to analyze control logic generation for of PLCs and DCS from natural language. We tested the prompts by generating answers with ChatGPT using the GPT-4 LLM. It generated syntactically correct IEC 61131-3 Structured Text code in many cases and demonstrated useful reasoning skills that could boost control engineer productivity. Our prompt collection is the basis for a more formal LLM benchmark to test and compare such models for control logic generation. The legal profession necessitates a multidimensional approach that involves synthesizing an in-depth comprehension of a legal issue with insightful commentary based on personal experience, combined with a comprehensive understanding of pertinent legislation, regulation, and case law, in order to deliver an informed legal solution. The present offering with generative AI presents major obstacles in replicating this, as current models struggle to integrate and navigate such a complex interplay of understanding, experience, and fact-checking procedures. It is noteworthy that where generative AI outputs understanding and experience, which reflect the aggregate of various subjective views on similar topics, this often deflects the model's attention from the crucial legal facts, thereby resulting in hallucination. Hence, this paper delves into the feasibility of three independent LLMs, each focused on understanding, experience, and facts, synthesising as one single ensemble model to effectively counteract the current challenges posed by the existing monolithic generative AI models. We introduce an idea of mutli-length tokenisation to protect key information assets like common law judgements, and finally we interrogate the most advanced publicly available models for legal hallucination, with some interesting results. The advancement in generative AI could be boosted with more accessible mathematics. Beyond human-AI chat, large language models (LLMs) are emerging in programming, algorithm discovery, and theorem proving, yet their genomics application is limited. This project introduces Math Agents and mathematical embedding as fresh entries to the"Moore's Law of Mathematics", using a GPT-based workflow to convert equations from literature into LaTeX and Python formats. While many digital equation representations exist, there's a lack of automated large-scale evaluation tools. LLMs are pivotal as linguistic user interfaces, providing natural language access for human-AI chat and formal languages for large-scale AI-assisted computational infrastructure. Given the infinite formal possibility spaces, Math Agents, which interact with math, could potentially shift us from"big data"to"big math". Math, unlike the more flexible natural language, has properties subject to proof, enabling its use beyond traditional applications like high-validation math-certified icons for AI alignment aims. This project aims to use Math Agents and mathematical embeddings to address the ageing issue in information systems biology by applying multiscalar physics mathematics to disease models and genomic data. Generative AI with episodic memory could help analyse causal relations in longitudinal health records, using SIR Precision Health models. Genomic data is suggested for addressing the unsolved Alzheimer's disease problem. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, such as large language models (LLMs) and diffusion model image and video generators, can transform learning and teaching experiences by providing students and instructors with access to a vast amount of information and create innovative learning and teaching materials in a very efficient way (e.g., U.S. Department of Education, 2023; Kasneci et al., 2023; Mollick & Mollick, 2023; Nikolic et al., 2023). For example, Google Bard and OpenAI ChatGPT are LLMs that can generate natural language texts for various purposes, such as summaries of research papers (e.g., OpenAI, 2023). At the same time, Midjourney and DeepBrain AI are diffusion models that can create diagrams (e.g., concept maps), images, and videos from textual or visual inputs. Engineering education, in particular, can benefit from integrating and utilizing generative AI technologies to improve instructional resources, develop new technology-enhanced learning environments, reduce instructors' workloads, and provide students with opportunities to design and develop their learning experiences. These technologies can help educators to create more personalized, effective, and engaging learning experiences for engineering students. Most engineering students struggle to acquire a deep understanding of complex engineering concepts because of the nature of the highly mathematical concepts, lack of prior knowledge, limitations of the large lectures, limited resources that prevent the use of commercially available lab equipment, and the lack of innovative teaching tools that could be utilized to enhance learning experiences (e.g., Menekse et al., 2018, 2022; Miller et al., 2011; Reeves & Crippen, 2021; Streveler & Menekse, 2017). These factors adversely affect retention and graduation rates and inhibit persistence in engineering majors (e.g., Estrada et al., 2016). Generative AI technologies and tools (e.g., CourseMIRROR) could support engineering educators to improve students' learning and engagement (e.g., Fan et al., 2015; Luo et al., 2015; Menekse, 2020). This paper investigates the use of traditional AI and generative AI techniques in enhancing the work of legal professionals. We propose an approach that applies a combination of AI techniques, traditional AI augmented with generative models for automating some of the laborious tasks in contract drafting. With the launches of advanced AI models such as ChatGPT, legal professionals are anticipating how such technologies can streamline their works. We first introduce how these models generate text contents given a user prompt. Then we propose some practical approaches in “prompt writing” which enable better and more coherent contract clauses to be generated. As privacy is typically a great concern in using ChatGPT in professional domains, we also explore the feasibility and effectiveness of using on-premises Large Language Models (LLMs) such as “Vicuna” as practical alternatives that may address the privacy issues while producing acceptable performance in contract drafting. Since AI generated clauses may not match the strict legal requirements or even be incorrect, we propose an approach to evaluate the clauses with traditional AI by using sentence transformers to retrieve similar clauses from a trusted source and perform automatic content similarity analysis. Experimental results using the public dataset LEDGAR showed that LLMs are useful tools for contract clause drafting and the automated comparison results can work as hints or recommendations that users can consider to revise and enhance the generated clauses, hence simplifying the task of contract drafting by legal professionals in an augmented intelligence manner. We present a method for zero-shot recommendation of multimodal non-stationary content that leverages recent advancements in the field of generative AI. We propose rendering inputs of different modalities as textual descriptions and to utilize pre-trained LLMs to obtain their numerical representations by computing semantic embeddings. Once unified representations of all content items are obtained, the recommendation can be performed by computing an appropriate similarity metric between them without any additional learning. We demonstrate our approach on a synthetic multimodal nudging environment, where the inputs consist of tabular, textual, and visual data. This paper examines the ethical considerations and implications of large language models (LLMs) in generating content. It highlights the potential for both positive and negative uses of generative AI programs and explores the challenges in assigning responsibility for their outputs. The discussion emphasizes the need for proactive ethical frameworks and policy measures to guide the responsible development and deployment of LLMs. The emergence of generative Large Language Models (LLMs) emphasizes the need for accurate and efficient prompting approaches. LLMs are often applied in Few-Shot Learning (FSL) contexts, where tasks are executed with minimal training data. FSL has become popular in many Artificial Intelligence (AI) subdomains, including AI for health. Rare diseases affect a small fraction of the population. Rare disease identification from clinical notes inherently requires FSL techniques due to limited data availability. Manual data collection and annotation is both expensive and time-consuming. In this paper, we propose Models-Vote Prompting (MVP), a flexible prompting approach for improving the performance of LLM queries in FSL settings. MVP works by prompting numerous LLMs to perform the same tasks and then conducting a majority vote on the resulting outputs. This method achieves improved results to any one model in the ensemble on one-shot rare disease identification and classification tasks. We also release a novel rare disease dataset for FSL, available to those who signed the MIMIC-IV Data Use Agreement (DUA). Furthermore, in using MVP, each model is prompted multiple times, substantially increasing the time needed for manual annotation, and to address this, we assess the feasibility of using JSON for automating generative LLM evaluation. The recent Large Language Models (LLMs) use advanced algorithms to identify areas where sentence structure and word choice can be improved and to detect grammar, syntax, and spelling mistakes in sentences. This study aimed to investigate the effectiveness of the Chat Generative Pre-trained Transformer (ChatGPT) in detecting English as a foreign language (EFL) learners’ writing errors compared to human instructors. This study examines the ChatGPT as a recent and advanced LLM in analyzing and processing EFL learners’ writing issues. This paper provides valuable insights into the potential benefits and challenges of integrating Artificial Intelligence (AI) into EFL writing education. Our results revealed that ChatGPT successfully identified most surface-level errors but could not detect writing errors related to deep structure and pragmatics. Conversely, human teachers could spot most of these issues. These findings suggest that while ChatGPT can be a valuable tool in identifying surface-level errors, it cannot replace human instructors’ expertise and nuanced understanding in detecting errors related to the more complex aspects of writing. The writing error types (data) are statistically analyzed. The descriptive analysis displays valuable insights into the reliability of the data and its potential implications, where the F-score, which measures the statistical model accuracy, is found to be 1.5. In the meantime, the p-value score, which shows the probability of obtaining results as extreme as the detected data, is calculated to be 0.23. The results suggest that the collected data is statistically significant, and further analysis may yield valuable insights. Applications built on top of Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-4 represent a revolution in AI due to their human-level capabilities in natural language processing. However, they also pose many significant risks such as the presence of biased, private, or harmful text, and the unauthorized inclusion of copyrighted material. We introduce h2oGPT, a suite of open-source code repositories for the creation and use of LLMs based on Generative Pretrained Transformers (GPTs). The goal of this project is to create the world's best truly open-source alternative to closed-source approaches. In collaboration with and as part of the incredible and unstoppable open-source community, we open-source several fine-tuned h2oGPT models from 7 to 40 Billion parameters, ready for commercial use under fully permissive Apache 2.0 licenses. Included in our release is 100\% private document search using natural language. Open-source language models help boost AI development and make it more accessible and trustworthy. They lower entry hurdles, allowing people and groups to tailor these models to their needs. This openness increases innovation, transparency, and fairness. An open-source strategy is needed to share AI benefits fairly, and H2O.ai will continue to democratize AI and LLMs. The recent development of generative and large language models (LLMs) poses new challenges for model evaluation that the research community and industry are grappling with. While the versatile capabilities of these models ignite excitement, they also inevitably make a leap toward homogenization: powering a wide range of applications with a single, often referred to as ``general-purpose'', model. In this position paper, we argue that model evaluation practices must take on a critical task to cope with the challenges and responsibilities brought by this homogenization: providing valid assessments for whether and how much human needs in downstream use cases can be satisfied by the given model (socio-technical gap). By drawing on lessons from the social sciences, human-computer interaction (HCI), and the interdisciplinary field of explainable AI (XAI), we urge the community to develop evaluation methods based on real-world socio-requirements and embrace diverse evaluation methods with an acknowledgment of trade-offs between realism to socio-requirements and pragmatic costs to conduct the evaluation. By mapping HCI and current NLG evaluation methods, we identify opportunities for evaluation methods for LLMs to narrow the socio-technical gap and pose open questions. The past decade has been transformative for mental health research and practice. The ability to harness large repositories of data, whether from electronic health records (EHR), mobile devices, or social media, has revealed a potential for valuable insights into patient experiences, promising early, proactive interventions, as well as personalized treatment plans. Recent developments in generative artificial intelligence, particularly large language models (LLMs), show promise in leading digital mental health to uncharted territory. Patients are arriving at doctors' appointments with information sourced from chatbots, state-of-the-art LLMs are being incorporated in medical software and EHR systems, and chatbots from an ever-increasing number of startups promise to serve as AI companions, friends, and partners. This article presents contemporary perspectives on the opportunities and risks posed by LLMs in the design, development, and implementation of digital mental health tools. We adopt an ecological framework and draw on the affordances offered by LLMs to discuss four application areas -- care-seeking behaviors from individuals in need of care, community care provision, institutional and medical care provision, and larger care ecologies at the societal level. We engage in a thoughtful consideration of whether and how LLM-based technologies could or should be employed for enhancing mental health. The benefits and harms our article surfaces could serve to help shape future research, advocacy, and regulatory efforts focused on creating more responsible, user-friendly, equitable, and secure LLM-based tools for mental health treatment and intervention. The emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs) has boosted performance and possibilities in various NLP tasks. While the usage of generative AI models like ChatGPT opens up new opportunities for several business use cases, their current tendency to hallucinate fake content strongly limits their applicability to document analysis, such as information retrieval from documents. In contrast, extractive language models like question answering (QA) or passage retrieval models guarantee query results to be found within the boundaries of an according context document, which makes them candidates for more reliable information extraction in productive environments of companies. In this work we propose an approach that uses and integrates extractive QA models for improved feature extraction of German business documents such as insurance reports or medical leaflets into a document analysis solution. We further show that fine-tuning existing German QA models boosts performance for tailored extraction tasks of complex linguistic features like damage cause explanations or descriptions of medication appearance, even with using only a small set of annotated data. Finally, we discuss the relevance of scoring metrics for evaluating information extraction tasks and deduce a combined metric from Levenshtein distance, F1-Score, Exact Match and ROUGE-L to mimic the assessment criteria from human experts. Writing radiology reports from medical images requires a high level of domain expertise. It is time-consuming even for trained radiologists and can be error-prone for inexperienced radiologists. It would be appealing to automate this task by leveraging generative AI, which has shown drastic progress in vision and language understanding. In particular, Large Language Models (LLM) have demonstrated impressive capabilities recently and continued to set new state-of-the-art performance on almost all natural language tasks. While many have proposed architectures to combine vision models with LLMs for multimodal tasks, few have explored practical fine-tuning strategies. In this work, we proposed a simple yet effective two-stage fine-tuning protocol to align visual features to LLM's text embedding space as soft visual prompts. Our framework with OpenLLaMA-7B achieved state-of-the-art level performance without domain-specific pretraining. Moreover, we provide detailed analyses of soft visual prompts and attention mechanisms, shedding light on future research directions. Within higher education, technology has consistently influenced the writing process; however, no technology has composed and shaped the message in the same way as Large Language Model-based artificial intelligence tools. Despite the rapid adoption of generative AI tools in higher education contexts, ethical best practices for using LLMs for technology-enhanced learning experiences within higher education are still evolving. To further examine AI-based co-authorship, the ChatGPT 3.5-generated position paper featured in this article’s second section argues for redefinitions of plagiarism and co-authorship in higher education and presents implications for teaching students the necessary digital literacy skills for navigating responsible, ethical AI use. The final section of this paper presents a human-generated comparative reflection of various composing processes and technologies used to create this article and the significance of these composing processes on the craft of writing. This paper aims advance ongoing discussions about the changing nature of authorship in technology-enhanced education. PurposeThis viewpoint article explores the transformative capabilities of large language models (LLMs) like the Chat Generative Pre-training Transformer (ChatGPT) within the property valuation industry. It particularly accentuates the pivotal role of prompt engineering in facilitating valuation reporting and advocates for adopting the “Red Book” compliance Chain-of-thought (COT) prompt engineering as a gold standard for generating AI-facilitated valuation reports.Design/methodology/approachThe article offers a high-level examination of the application of LLMs in real estate research, highlighting the essential role of prompt engineering for future advancements in generative AI. It explores the collaborative dynamic between valuers and AI advancements, emphasising the importance of precise instructions and contextual cues in directing LLMs to generate accurate and reproducible valuation outcomes.FindingsIntegrating LLMs into property valuation processes paves the way for efficiency improvements and task automation, such as generating reports and drafting contracts. AI-facilitated reports offer unprecedented transparency and elevate client experiences. The fusion of valuer expertise with prompt engineering ensures the reliability and interpretability of valuation reports.Practical implicationsDelineating the types and versions of LLMs used in AI-generated valuation reports encourage the adoption of transparency best practices within the industry. Valuers, as expert prompt engineers, can harness the potential of AI to enhance efficiency, accuracy and transparency in the valuation process, delivering significant benefits to a broad array of stakeholders.Originality/valueThe article elucidates the substantial impact of prompt engineering in leveraging LLMs within the property industry. It underscores the importance of valuers training their unique GPT models, enabling customisation and reproducibility of valuation outputs. The symbiotic relationship between valuers and LLMs is identified as a key driver shaping the future of property valuations. A conversational system is a natural language processing task that has recently attracted increasing attention with the advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) and Language Models for Dialogue Applications (LaMDA). However, Conversational Artificial Intelligence (AI) research has mainly been carried out in English. Despite the growing popularity of Arabic as one of the most widely used languages on the Internet, only a few studies have concentrated on Arabic conversational dialogue systems thus far. In this study, we conduct a comprehensive qualitative analysis of the key research works in this domain, examining the limitations and strengths of existing approaches. We start with chatbot history and classification. Then, we examine approaches that leverage Arabic chatbots Rule-based/Retrieval-based and Deep learning-based. In particular, we survey the evolution of Generative Conversational AI with the evolution of deep-learning techniques. Next, we look at the different metrics used to assess conversational systems. Finally, we outline language Challenges for building Generative Arabic Conversational AI. Solving mechanics problems using numerical methods requires comprehensive intelligent capability of retrieving relevant knowledge and theory, constructing and executing codes, analyzing the results, a task that has thus far mainly been reserved for humans. While emerging AI methods can provide effective approaches to solve end-to-end problems, for instance via the use of deep surrogate models or various data analytics strategies, they often lack physical intuition since knowledge is baked into the parametric complement through training, offering less flexibility when it comes to incorporating mathematical or physical insights. By leveraging diverse capabilities of multiple dynamically interacting large language models (LLMs), we can overcome the limitations of conventional approaches and develop a new class of physics-inspired generative machine learning platform, here referred to as MechAgents. A set of AI agents can solve mechanics tasks, here demonstrated for elasticity problems, via autonomous collaborations. A two-agent team can effectively write, execute and self-correct code, in order to apply finite element methods to solve classical elasticity problems in various flavors (different boundary conditions, domain geometries, meshes, small/finite deformation and linear/hyper-elastic constitutive laws, and others). For more complex tasks, we construct a larger group of agents with enhanced division of labor among planning, formulating, coding, executing and criticizing the process and results. The agents mutually correct each other to improve the overall team-work performance in understanding, formulating and validating the solution. Our framework shows the potential of synergizing the intelligence of language models, the reliability of physics-based modeling, and the dynamic collaborations among diverse agents, opening novel avenues for automation of solving engineering problems. Large language models (LLMs) and dialogue agents have existed for years, but the release of recent GPT models has been a watershed moment for artificial intelligence (AI) research and society at large. Immediately recognized for its generative capabilities and versatility, ChatGPT's impressive proficiency across technical and creative domains led to its widespread adoption. While society grapples with the emerging cultural impacts of ChatGPT, critiques of ChatGPT's impact within the machine learning community have coalesced around its performance or other conventional Responsible AI evaluations relating to bias, toxicity, and 'hallucination.' We argue that these latter critiques draw heavily on a particular conceptualization of the 'human-centered' framework, which tends to cast atomized individuals as the key recipients of both the benefits and detriments of technology. In this article, we direct attention to another dimension of LLMs and dialogue agents' impact: their effect on social groups, institutions, and accompanying norms and practices. By illustrating ChatGPT's social impact through three disruptive events, we challenge individualistic approaches in AI development and contribute to ongoing debates around the ethical and responsible implementation of AI systems. We hope this effort will call attention to more comprehensive and longitudinal evaluation tools and compel technologists to go beyond human-centered thinking and ground their efforts through social-centered AI. Competency Questions (CQs) are a form of ontology functional requirements expressed as natural language questions. Inspecting CQs together with the axioms in an ontology provides critical insights into the intended scope and applicability of the ontology. CQs also underpin a number of tasks in the development of ontologies e.g. ontology reuse, ontology testing, requirement specification, and the definition of patterns that implement such requirements. Although CQs are integral to the majority of ontology engineering methodologies, the practice of publishing CQs alongside the ontological artefacts is not widely observed by the community. In this context, we present an experiment in retrofitting CQs from existing ontologies. We propose RETROFIT-CQs, a method to extract candidate CQs directly from ontologies using Generative AI. In the paper we present the pipeline that facilitates the extraction of CQs by leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) and we discuss its application to a number of existing ontologies. Recent progress in generative AI, including large language models (LLMs) like ChatGPT, has opened up significant opportunities in fields ranging from natural language processing to knowledge discovery and data mining. However, there is also a growing awareness that the models can be prone to problems such as making information up or `hallucinations', and faulty reasoning on seemingly simple problems. Because of the popularity of models like ChatGPT, both academic scholars and citizen scientists have documented hallucinations of several different types and severity. Despite this body of work, a formal model for describing and representing these hallucinations (with relevant meta-data) at a fine-grained level, is still lacking. In this paper, we address this gap by presenting the Hallucination Ontology or HALO, a formal, extensible ontology written in OWL that currently offers support for six different types of hallucinations known to arise in LLMs, along with support for provenance and experimental metadata. We also collect and publish a dataset containing hallucinations that we inductively gathered across multiple independent Web sources, and show that HALO can be successfully used to model this dataset and answer competency questions. The potential of using personalized Large Language Models (LLMs) or “generative AI” (GenAI) to enhance productivity in academic research, as highlighted by Porsdam Mann and colleagues (Porsdam Mann et al. 2023), is of relevance not only to bioethics but virtually all academic fields. Here, I wish to elaborate on some of the authors’ remarks regarding the pitfalls that might result from the increasing use of GenAI for academic enhancement combined with the “publish or perish” imperative prevalent in academia today. First, the authors mention the risk that perverse incentives might arise from such a combination. These incentives might lead researchers to produce ever more papers of barely publishable quality to boost their CVs and career prospects, resulting in a race to the bottom. How can such a phenomenon be discouraged? The solution does not seem to lie in an official prohibition on the use of GenAI for academic research, even one limited to the more “substantive” or original parts of a text. Indeed, any such prohibition is likely to prove very difficult to enforce, given the apparent inability of existing tools to reliably detect AI-generated text, especially given the possibility of slightly modifying or paraphrasing the AI’s output (Weber-Wulff et al. 2023). Furthermore, even novel and valuable content can conceivably be produced via a judicious mix of contributions from both humans and AI. A more constructive approach might simply lie in upholding proper standards of quality in research: that is, standards researchers can only meet by substantially contributing to the end result, and not by re-using a LLM’s response to prompts more or less as is. This will be the responsibility of editors and reviewers at respected journals and book publishers, but also of academics tasked with making hiring and promotion decisions, who will need to take special care not to unduly privilege quantity over quality when assessing a candidate’s output. Secondly, if the potential of GenAI to enhance productivity does get realized, the question arises of how authors, journal editors and reviewers will deal with the consequent growth in article submissions and in the volume of published literature. Whether or not finding reviewers for papers submitted to academic journals has generally become more challenging is currently a disputed issue (compare for instance Flaherty 2022, with Zupanc 2023), yet there is little doubt that GenAI could make such a challenge very real. Unless the efficiency of the reviewing process can somehow be enhanced in proportion to the rise in submitted articles, journals are likely to face a growing backlog of submissions. A natural suggestion here is to pursue greater efficiency by integrating AI into the reviewing process itself. As it happens, this is already being done, to assist with the initial screening of submissions (Checco et al. 2021). In the future, the role of AI can be expanded further: for instance, reviewers will be able to use GenAI to write reviews more efficiently. While this is certainly a plausible development, it remains to be seen whether it will suffice to successfully cope with the growth in submissions, especially if the quality of peer review is not to suffer as a result. (We may suspect that it will if reviewers use AI to avoid having to read the articles they are reviewing in full, so as to complete more assignments within the same amount of time.) Similar remarks apply to the challenge of keeping up with an ever more voluminous published literature. Here again, GenAI might be part of the solution, for example by providing researchers with reviews and summaries of the relevant readings. The question is In the era of generative AI and specifically large language models (LLMs), exemplified by ChatGPT, the intersection of artificial intelligence and human reasoning has become a focal point of global attention. Unlike conventional search engines, LLMs go beyond mere information retrieval, entering into the realm of discourse culture. Their outputs mimic well-considered, independent opinions or statements of facts, presenting a pretense of wisdom. This paper explores the potential transformative impact of LLMs on democratic societies. It delves into the concerns regarding the difficulty in distinguishing ChatGPT-generated texts from human output. The discussion emphasizes the essence of authorship, rooted in the unique human capacity for reason—a quality indispensable for democratic discourse and successful collaboration within free societies. Highlighting the potential threats to democracy, this paper presents three arguments: the Substitution argument, the Authenticity argument, and the Facts argument. These arguments highlight the potential risks that are associated with an overreliance on LLMs. The central thesis posits that widespread deployment of LLMs may adversely affect the fabric of a democracy if not comprehended and addressed proactively and properly. In proposing a solution, we advocate for an emphasis on education as a means to mitigate risks. We suggest cultivating thinking skills in children, fostering coherent thought formulation, and distinguishing between machine-generated output and genuine, i.e., human, reasoning. The focus should be on the responsible development and usage of LLMs, with the goal of augmenting human capacities in thinking, deliberating and decision-making rather than substituting them. The rapid development and adoption of Generative AI (GAI) technology in the form of chatbots such as ChatGPT and Claude has greatly increased interest in agentic machines. This paper introduces the Autonomous Cognitive Entity (ACE) model, a novel framework for a cognitive architecture, enabling machines and software agents to operate more independently. Drawing inspiration from the OSI model, the ACE framework presents layers of abstraction to conceptualize artificial cognitive architectures. The model is designed to harness the capabilities of the latest generative AI technologies, including large language models (LLMs) and multimodal generative models (MMMs), to build autonomous, agentic systems. The ACE framework comprises six layers: the Aspirational Layer, Global Strategy, Agent Model, Executive Function, Cognitive Control, and Task Prosecution. Each layer plays a distinct role, ranging from setting the moral compass and strategic thinking to task selection and execution. The ACE framework also incorporates mechanisms for handling failures and adapting actions, thereby enhancing the robustness and flexibility of autonomous agents. This paper introduces the conceptual framework and proposes implementation strategies that have been tested and observed in industry. The goal of this paper is to formalize this framework so as to be more accessible. What is the educational challenge?Incorporation of large language model (LLM) or generative artificial intelligence (AI) software poses a challenge to various areas of medical education, including problem-based learning (PBL). LLMs, such as ChatGPT, have incredible potential to transform educational systems and enhance student learning outcomes when used responsibly.What are the proposed solutions?ChatGPT can provide several ways to support students and assist facilitators with course responsibilities. Here we address factors of implementation and describe how ChatGPT can be responsibly utilized to support key elements of PBL.How was the solution implemented?Providing reasonable access is an essential element of novel software implementation. Additionally, training for both faculty and staff is vital to foster responsible usage, provide base-line proficiency, and guide users to critically evaluate the quality of output.What lessons were learned that are relevant to a wider audience?The use of LLMs or other generative AI is dramatically rising in the world. Appropriate and conscientious incorporation of AI into educational programs can foster responsible use and potentially enhance student learning.What are the next steps?Assessment of learning outcomes, student self-efficacy, group dynamics, and stakeholder feedback are required to measure the effects of ChatGPT in the PBL curriculum. Additionally, software programs competitive with ChatGPT are currently under development and will also need to be investigated for their potential role in education. 
 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 Generative artificial intelligence will play a major role in the daily work of agricultural safety and health professionals.
 
 
 Properly trained large language models can assist educators, researchers, and clinicians in responding to agricultural safety and health questions.
 
 
 Numerous issues and obstacles must be overcome to use LLMs in these settings, including accuracy and completeness of responses, bias, and intellectual property concerns.
 
 
 
 Keywords: Agricultural safety, Artificial intelligence, Bias, ChatGPT, Consultation, Extension, Generative AI, Health, Education, Intellectual Property, Large language models, LLM, Teaching. The potential applications of artificial intelligence (AI) in dermatology are evolving rapidly. Chatbots are an emerging trend in healthcare that rely on large language models (LLMs) to generate answers to prompts from users. However, the factuality and user experience (UX) of such chatbots remain to be evaluated in the context of dermato‐oncology.To examine the potential of Chat Generative Pretrained Transformer (ChatGPT) as a reliable source of information in the context of actinic keratosis (AK) and to evaluate clinicians' attitudes and UX with regard to the chatbot.A set of 38 clinical questions were compiled and entered as natural language queries in separate, individual conversation threads in ChatGPT (OpenAI, default GPT 3.5). Questions pertain to patient education, diagnosis, and treatment. ChatGPT's responses were presented to a panel of 7 dermatologists for rating of factual accuracy, currency of information, and completeness of the response. Attitudes towards ChatGTP were explored qualitatively and quantitatively using a validated user experience questionnaire (UEQ).ChatGPT answered 12 questions (31.6%) with an accurate, current, and complete response. ChatGPT performed best for questions on patient education, including pathogenesis of AK and potential risk factors, but struggled with diagnosis and treatment. Major deficits were seen in grading AK, providing up‐to‐date treatment guidance, and asserting incorrect information with unwarranted confidence. Further, responses were considered verbose with an average word count of 198 (SD 55) and overly alarming of the risk of malignant transformation. Based on UEQ responses, the expert panel considered ChatGPT an attractive and efficient tool, scoring highest for speed of information retrieval, but deemed the chatbot inaccurate and verbose, scoring lowest for clarity.While dermatologists rated ChatGPT high in UX, the underlying LLMs that enable such chatbots require further development to guarantee accuracy and concision required in a clinical setting. The training of large language models (LLMs) on extensive, unfiltered corpora sourced from the internet is a common and advantageous practice. Consequently, LLMs have learned and inadvertently reproduced various types of biases, including violent, offensive, and toxic language. However, recent research shows that generative pretrained transformer (GPT) language models can recognize their own biases and detect toxicity in generated content, a process referred to as self-diagnosis. In response, researchers have developed a decoding algorithm that allows LLMs to self-debias, or reduce their likelihood of generating harmful text. This study investigates the efficacy of the diagnosing-debiasing approach in mitigating two additional types of biases: insults and political bias. These biases are often used interchangeably in discourse, despite exhibiting potentially dissimilar semantic and syntactic properties. We aim to contribute to the ongoing effort of investigating the ethical and social implications of human-AI interaction. Object rearrangement, a fundamental challenge in robotics, demands versatile strategies to handle diverse objects, configurations, and functional needs. To achieve this, the AI robot needs to learn functional rearrangement priors in order to specify precise goals that meet the functional requirements. Previous methods typically learn such priors from either laborious human annotations or manually designed heuristics, which limits scalability and generalization. In this work, we propose a novel approach that leverages large models to distill functional rearrangement priors. Specifically, our approach collects diverse arrangement examples using both LLMs and VLMs and then distills the examples into a diffusion model. During test time, the learned diffusion model is conditioned on the initial configuration and guides the positioning of objects to meet functional requirements. In this manner, we create a handshaking point that combines the strengths of conditional generative models and large models. Extensive experiments on multiple domains, including real-world scenarios, demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in generating compatible goals for object rearrangement tasks, significantly outperforming baseline methods. Background: Artificial intelligence (AI) large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT have demonstrated the ability to pass standardized exams. These models are not trained for a specific task, but instead trained to predict sequences of text from large corpora of documents sourced from the internet. It has been shown that even models trained on this general task can pass exams in a variety of domain-specific fields, including the United States Medical Licensing Examination. We asked if LLMs would perform as well on a much narrower subdomain tests designed for medical specialists. Furthermore, we wanted to better understand how progressive generations of GPT (generative pre-trained transformer) models may be evolving in the completeness and sophistication of their responses even while generational training remains general. In this study, we evaluated the performance of two versions of GPT (GPT 3 and 4) on their ability to pass the certification exam given to physicians to work as osteoporosis specialists and become a certified clinical densitometrists. Methods: A 100-question multiple-choice practice exam was obtained from a 3rd party exam preparation website that mimics the accredited certification tests given by the ISCD (international society for clinical densitometry). The exam was administered to two versions of GPT, the free version (GPT Playground) and ChatGPT+, which are based on GPT-3 and GPT-4, respectively (OpenAI, San Francisco, CA). The systems were prompted with the exam questions verbatim. If the response was purely textual and did not specify which of the multiple-choice answers to select, the authors matched the text to the closest answer. Each exam was graded and an estimated ISCD score was provided from the exam website. In addition, each response was evaluated by a rheumatologist CCD and ranked for accuracy using a 5-level scale. The two GPT versions were compared in terms of response accuracy and length. Results: The average response length was 11.6 {+/-}19 words for GPT-3 and 50.0{+/-}43.6 words for GPT-4. GPT-3 answered 62 questions correctly resulting in a failing ISCD score of 289. However, GPT-4 answered 82 questions correctly with a passing score of 342. GPT-3 scored highest on the Overview of Low Bone Mass and Osteoporosis category (72% correct) while GPT-4 scored well above 80% accuracy on all categories except Imaging Technology in Bone Health (65% correct). Regarding subjective accuracy, GPT-3 answered 23 questions with nonsensical or totally wrong responses while GPT-4 had no responses in that category. Conclusion: If this had been an actual certification exam, GPT-4 would now have a CCD suffix to its name even after being trained using general internet knowledge. Clearly, more goes into physician training than can be captured in this exam. However, GPT algorithms may prove to be valuable physician aids in the diagnoses and monitoring of osteoporosis and other diseases. Keywords: GPT; LLM; clinical densitometry; CCD; Humans no doubt use language to communicate about their emotional experiences, but does language in turn help humans understand emotions, or is language just a vehicle of communication? This study used a form of artificial intelligence (AI) known as large language models (LLMs) to assess whether language-based representations of emotion causally contribute to the AI's ability to generate inferences about the emotional meaning of novel situations. Fourteen attributes of human emotion concept representation were found to be represented by the LLM's distinct artificial neuron populations. By manipulating these attribute-related neurons, we in turn demonstrated the role of emotion concept knowledge in generative emotion inference. The attribute-specific performance deterioration was related to the importance of different attributes in human mental space. Our findings provide a proof-in-concept that even a LLM can learn about emotions in the absence of sensory-motor representations and highlight the contribution of language-derived emotion-concept knowledge for emotion inference. The launch of the open AI chatbot, ChatGPT, in November 2022 has generated widespread excitement around Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI). While researchers have explored ChatGPT's ability to produce content and respond to input, our study takes a different approach and examines its use cases in the financial industry. We aim to understand what ChatGPT offers the financial industry and how it differs from existing banking and financial chatbots. Financial institutions can use ChatGPT for a variety of purposes, including customer engagement, personalization, up-selling and cross-selling, stock forecasting, product development, and financial education. By focusing on the potential of ChatGPT in finance, we hope to spark discussions about its applications in other domains and explore the possibilities of a larger revolution in the future. Finally, this study identifies the challenges associated with the use of Generative Open AI and LLMs-based chatbots in the financial industry and provides recommendations for addressing these challenges. Generative AI models garnered a large amount of public attention and speculation with the release of OpenAIs chatbot, ChatGPT. At least two opinion camps exist: one excited about possibilities these models offer for fundamental changes to human tasks, and another highly concerned about power these models seem to have. To address these concerns, we assessed several LLMs, primarily GPT 3.5, using standard, normed, and validated cognitive and personality measures. For this seedling project, we developed a battery of tests that allowed us to estimate the boundaries of some of these models capabilities, how stable those capabilities are over a short period of time, and how they compare to humans. Our results indicate that LLMs are unlikely to have developed sentience, although its ability to respond to personality inventories is interesting. GPT3.5 did display large variability in both cognitive and personality measures over repeated observations, which is not expected if it had a human-like personality. Variability notwithstanding, LLMs display what in a human would be considered poor mental health, including low self-esteem, marked dissociation from reality, and in some cases narcissism and psychopathy, despite upbeat and helpful responses. This paper presents an LLM-generated “Short Report'' on designing technology-enhanced first-year success programs for first-generation college students at large, public universities. We describe the three-phase process used to generate the report, and the process evolution as we came to understand the LLM’s tendencies, while also highlighting the opportunities and challenges of integrating LLMs in the scholarly practitioner discourse.
We explore whether Generative AI can serve as a valuable tool for educational and scholarly contexts. The current iteration of Large Language Models (LLMs) exhibits several critical shortcomings for reliably producing an article fit for publication, including imprecise information, overt hallucinations, problematic oversights, and vague language that would typically render it unsuitable for rigorous academic discussion. However, Generative AI can present us with viable, impactful ideas for improving learning. It is incumbent on us as educators to recognize, evaluate, and develop those ideas for our campuses and communities. The process engineering domain widely uses Process Flow Diagrams (PFDs) and Process and Instrumentation Diagrams (P&IDs) to represent process flows and equipment configurations. However, the P&IDs and PFDs, hereafter called flowsheets, can contain errors causing safety hazards, inefficient operation, and unnecessary expenses. Correcting and verifying flowsheets is a tedious, manual process. We propose a novel generative AI methodology for automatically identifying errors in flowsheets and suggesting corrections to the user, i.e., autocorrecting flowsheets. Inspired by the breakthrough of Large Language Models (LLMs) for grammatical autocorrection of human language, we investigate LLMs for the autocorrection of flowsheets. The input to the model is a potentially erroneous flowsheet and the output of the model are suggestions for a corrected flowsheet. We train our autocorrection model on a synthetic dataset in a supervised manner. The model achieves a top-1 accuracy of 80% and a top-5 accuracy of 84% on an independent test dataset of synthetically generated flowsheets. The results suggest that the model can learn to autocorrect the synthetic flowsheets. We envision that flowsheet autocorrection will become a useful tool for chemical engineers. Educational materials, including guides, tutorials, and master plans, are universally presented in e-book formats. This facilitates a comprehensive understanding for academics, encompassing both technical intricacies and broader conceptual frameworks. E-books offer several benefits, such as searchability and the incorporation of links to additional information sources. However, many individuals express concerns that e-books are not particularly comfortable for extended reading periods. In the other hand, a Generative AI approach is employed for the development of an intelligent chatbot. Our primary contribution lies in an automated information retrieval method, involving the design of a PDF-Driven Chatbot using Large Language Models (LLMs) in the context of faculty guidelines question answering. This research utilizes the LangChain Framework, OpenAI’s Chat-GPT (GPT3.5 Turbo), and Pinecone for generating responses. The outcomes demonstrate that the chatbot is capable of generating coherent responses closely aligned with the context of the PDF document. Large language models (LLMs) are powerful AI tools that can generate and comprehend natural language text and other complex information. However, the field lacks a mathematical framework to systematically describe, compare and improve LLMs. We propose Hex a framework that clarifies key terms and concepts in LLM research, such as hallucinations, alignment, self-verification and chain-of-thought reasoning. The Hex framework offers a precise and consistent way to characterize LLMs, identify their strengths and weaknesses, and integrate new findings. Using Hex, we differentiate chain-of-thought reasoning from chain-of-thought prompting and establish the conditions under which they are equivalent. This distinction clarifies the basic assumptions behind chain-of-thought prompting and its implications for methods that use it, such as self-verification and prompt programming. Our goal is to provide a formal framework for LLMs that can help both researchers and practitioners explore new possibilities for generative AI. We do not claim to have a definitive solution, but rather a tool for opening up new research avenues. We argue that our formal definitions and results are crucial for advancing the discussion on how to build generative AI systems that are safe, reliable, fair and robust, especially in domains like healthcare and software engineering. test performance were recorded, and the receiver operating characteristic and precision-recall curves plotted. Results/Findings: The AUCs for Bard, GPT 3.5 and chatGPT 4.0 were 0.65, 0.90, and 0.92, respectively, (Figure 1A) with overall accuracies of 55%, 64%, and 91%. The areas under the precision-recall curve for Bard, GPT 3.5, and chatGPT 4.0 were 0.46, 0.87, and 0.88, respectively (Figure 1B), with overall precision of 44%, 50%, and 80%. Recall rates for Bard, GPT 3.5 and chatGPT 4.0 were 94%, 100%, and 100%, that is, there were almost no missed indications for transfusion. Conclusions: When presented with transfusion scenarios in natural language, publicly available generative AI LLMs made generally appropriate transfusion decisions with a moderate to high degree of accuracy and precision. ChatGPT 4.0, the most recent iteration of its LLM, showed a degree of accuracy, precision far above what is usually reported in clinical reviews of human transfusion decisions. The ability of LLMs to handle complex scenarios, such as undifferentiated coagulopathy in a bleeding patient, is unknown. Research is urgently needed to assess the utility of LLMs in transfusion medicine practice, as well as considering the role of the physician alongside such technologies, and how they might be use for the benefit and safety of patients. The release of ChatGPT to the public at the end of last year had many in the field of education worried. In response, this paper explored the future of college education and artificial intelligence (AI). First, a proper understanding of how large language models (LLMs) “train” and “learn,” along with their abilities and limitations, was established. Simply put, while LLMs produce plausible linguistic output, they are “stochastic parrots” that have no actual understanding of language. 
Next, we examined the dangers of generative AI and discovered that they might help in the creation and dissemination of misinformation. Even if these AI are not used with malicious intent, the fact that their training data sets are drawn from the internet—which reflects majority thinking—means that they can perpetuate and amplify social inequality and hegemonic stereotypes and biases. On the other hand, if we consider what is missing from the training data, it is only natural that marginalized voices should be even more marginalized. In addition, leaving the issue of the socially vulnerable aside, LLMs can only be trained on digital data, meaning analog data is ignored. This is in line with the idea of “the destruction of history” put forth by Joseph Weizenbaum, an early critic who warned of the dangers of artificial intelligence. 
We then discussed the relationship between humans and machines and considered which relationships were problematic and which were desirable. Researchers in the aviation industry recognized the problem of automation bias from an early date, but this phenomenon can be seen in other areas of society as well. Put simply, if a human places too much trust in a machine, they abdicate their decision-making responsibility to that machine and thus fail to respond quickly to solve any problems that may arise should that machine malfunction. LLMs do not endanger lives in the same way that airplanes do, but a similar bias can be seen with them as well. A more important issue, though, is the fact that people are no longer seen as whole human beings but as computers. This tendency was evident long before the advent of computers, for example in the attempts to quantify human intelligence through IQ tests, but it is a problem we must be particularly wary of in the age of AI. 
Lastly, we considered means for college education to find its way in the present situation. Educators in the US in particular, while dealing with ChatGPT, have pinpointed not the LLMs themselves but the “transactional nature” of education as the problem. That is, they argue that education has long since become less a process of learning and more a transaction in which students receive grades and degrees. Given this transactional environment, it is no wonder that student would rely too much on ChatGPT. This over-reliance, however, comes with side effects: not learning how to think properly, a lack of sufficient academic information, and learning an AI-based writing style. In response, US educators have proposed both “stick” (strategies that make it difficult for students to use LLMs) and “carrot” (strategies that encourage students to learn like human beings, not algorithms) solutions, but the heart of the matter seems to be a sense of responsibility. Creating an educational environment in which students can develop a sense of responsibility for themselves is the path forward for education in the age of AI. If we do this, LLMs can become a useful tool rather than an enemy to fear. With the emergence of large language models (LLMs), with the most popular called ChatGPT that have attracted the attention of over a 100 million users in only 2 months, artificial intelligence (AI), especially generative AI has become accessible for the masses. This is an unprecedented paradigm shift not only because of the use of AI becoming more widespread but also due to the possible implications of LLMs in healthcare. Prompt engineering is a relatively new field of research that refers to the practice of designing, refining, and implementing prompts or instructions that guide the output of LLMs to help in various tasks. As more patients and medical professionals use AI-based tools, LLMs being the most popular representatives of that group, it seems inevitable to address the challenge to improve at this skill. This paper summarizes the current state of research about prompt engineering; and at the same time, aims at providing practical recommendations for the wide range of healthcare professionals to improve their interactions with LLMs. Artificial Intelligence (AI) has made significant progress in various domains, but the quest for machines to truly understand natural language has been challenging. Traditional mainstream approaches to AI, while valuable, often struggled to achieve human-level language comprehension. However, the emergence of neural networks and the subsequent adoption of the downstream approach have revolutionized the field, as demonstrated by the powerful and successful language model, ChatGPT.
The deep learning algorithms utilized in large language models (LLMs) differ significantly from those employed in traditional neural networks.
This article endeavors to provide a valuable and insightful exploration of the functionality and performance of generative AI. It aims to accomplish this by offering a comprehensive, yet simplified, analysis of the underlying mathematical models used by systems such as ChatGPT. The primary objective is to explore the diverse performance capabilities of these systems across some important domains such as clinical practice. The article also sheds light on the existing gaps and limitations that impact the quality and reliability of generated answers. Furthermore, it delves into potential strategies aimed at improving the reliability and cognitive aspects of generative AI systems. Rapid advancements in generative artificial intelligence (AI), specifically large language models (LLMs), offer unprecedented opportunities and challenges for qualitative researchers. This paper presents comprehensive guidelines for the ethical and effective use of LLMs in the development and refinement of interview protocols. Through a multidisciplinary lens, this paper explores potential pitfalls, ethical considerations, and best practices to ensure the responsible integration of LLMs in the research process. The guidelines proposed serve not only as a methodological roadmap for researchers but also as a catalyst for dialogue on the ethical dimensions of LLMs in qualitative research. Furthermore, the authors describe and share a web-based application developed to guide users through the stages of the protocol. Ultimately, the paper calls for a collective, informed approach to harness the capabilities of LLMs while upholding the integrity and ethical standards of scholarly research. The rapid advancement of generative artificial intelligence (AI) has initiated transformative changes in diverse sectors, the medical field being a prominent beneficiary. This article provides a comprehensive exploration of the impact of AI in medicine, delineating the range of opportunities and challenges that accompany its adoption. Many existing medical algorithms, while valuable, exhibit a propensity for singular-task orientation, potentially leading to suboptimal interactions and systemic disruption. This paper examines the potential of large language models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, to improve medical algorithms. It discusses the basic principles of LLM and provides a detailed analysis of ChatGPT, highlighting its exceptional interactive capabilities. Additionally, the study evaluates the real-world applications of ChatGPT in the medical domain, comparing its performance with other leading LLMs through clinically relevant experiments and rigorous analysis. Although ChatGPT is still in its basic versions, this work emphasizes the need to explore and improve its capabilities for medical applications to improve interaction and reduce human costs in the future. Conversational systems have recently garnered increased attention due to advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) and Language Models for Dialogue Applications (LaMDA). However, conversational Artificial Intelligence (AI) research focuses primarily on English. Despite Arabic being one of the most widely used languages on the Internet, only a few studies have concentrated on Arabic conversational dialogue systems thus far. This study presents a comprehensive qualitative analysis of critical research works in this domain to examine the strengths and limitations of existing approaches. The analysis begins with an overview of chatbot history and classification, then explores the language challenges encountered when developing Generative Arabic Conversational AI. Rule-based/Retrieval-based and deep learning-based approaches for Arabic chatbots are also examined. Furthermore, the study investigates the evolution of Generative Conversational AI with the advancements in deep-learning techniques. It also comprehensively reviews various metrics used to assess conversational systems. Represented by ChatGPT and GPT-4, Large Language Models (LLM) based on the Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT) have revolutionized the capability of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in natural language processing. In the fields of business and economics, large amounts of research and applications of GPT-based LLMs have been developed and published to automate tasks that mandate advanced human-machine interaction. Nevertheless, there has not been a systematic literature review on GPT-based LLMs in business and economics. To fill this gap, we present our in-progress literature review in this paper focusing on these two related fields. This paper analyzed 30 published research articles and delineated the trends in research, application, prompt engineering and ethical considerations. Our goal is to provide a research framework as well as an application guideline for the fast-growing audience of GPT and LLMs in business and economics. Results of the literature review indicate that many studies are: (1) engaged in creating new applications of GPT-LLM; (2) empirical-qualitative research based on evidenced-oriented data sources; (3) applying diverse methods of prompt engineering; (4) concerned about ethical challenges of GPT-based LLMs. In the dynamic realm of AI, integrating Large Language Models (LLMs) with security systems reshape cybersecurity. LLMs bolster defense against cyber threats but also introduce risks, aiding adver-saries in generating malicious content, discovering vulnerabilities, and distorting perceptions. This paper presents Net-GPT, an LLM-empowered offensive chatbot that understands network protocols and launches Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV)-based Man-in-the-middle (MITM) attacks against a hijack communication between UAV and Ground Control Stations (GCS). Facilitated by an edge server equipped with finely tuned LLMs, Net-GPT crafts mimicked network packets between UAV and GCS. Leveraging the adaptabil-ity of popular LLMs, Net-GPT produces context-aligned network packets. We fine-tune and assess Net-GPT's LLM-based efficacy, showing its impressive generative accuracy: 95.3% for Llama-2-13B and 94.1% for Llama-2-7B. Smaller LLMs, such as Distil-GPT-2, reach 77.9% predictive capability of Llama-2-7B but are 47x faster. Cost-efficiency tests highlight model quality's impact on accuracy while fine-tuning data quantity enhances predictability on spe-cific metrics. It holds great potential to be used in edge-computing environments with amplified computing capability. In recent years, AI has made many advances in multiple fronts. One such recent advance is the development of Large Language Models(LLMs), a deep learning model trained with a large set of data on billions of parameters. Many Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT) models have been developed on these LLMs. ChatGPT has become the most popular GPT used by many people. Recently, a blackhat GPT named WormGPT has been launched for cybercriminals. WormGPT is capable of launching many types of attacks resulting in irreparable damage. Hence, Users are required to be familiar with these tools, if they are to protect themselves. This article is possibly the very first attempt to initiate a discussion on this topic within the formal research circles. This article starts with an introduction to LLMs and GPTs and then presents the details of WormGPT, its capabilities and the damage it can cause. Finally, a set of safeguards has been presented that can help to protect users from possible attacks. While most of the papers in this special issue explore the use of artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) to support the evaluation of nondestructive testing (NDT) data and assist with the classification of NDT indications, there are other important ways that emerging AI tools may impact how we work in NDT. The article discusses the recent emergence of AI chatbots, also referred to as generative artificial intelligence agents or large language models (LLMs), and highlights the potential benefits and risks as part of work in the NDT field. Since the emergence of Transformers architecture, the Natural Language Generation (NLG) field has advanced at break-neck speed. Large language models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable results in the field of generative artificial intelligence (AI). Nevertheless, they also present some problems worth analysing: not only are they computationally non-viable to academia, but they also have other issues, such us not generating text in a fully controllable way or the phenomenon known as hallucination. Because of this, the purpose of this paper is to outline and set the ideas for a new PhD thesis research. This PhD thesis will aim at advancing the state of the art by discovering new cost-effective, efficient and high-performing approaches to controlled text generation that could perform well in the different NLG tasks. Therefore, the main objective of this PhD thesis is to design a novel and efficient task-agnostic architecture that could obtain equivalent performance of LLMs, while generating text in a controllable way and including external commonsense knowledge. Artificial Intelligence (AI) has been rapidly advancing and has demonstrated its ability to perform a wide range of cognitive tasks, including language processing, visual recognition, and decision-making. Part of this progress is due to LLMs (Large Language Models) like those of the GPT (Generative Pre-Trained Transformers) family. These models are capable of exhibiting behavior that can be perceived as intelligent. Most authors in Neuropsychology consider intelligent behavior to depend on a number of overarching skills, or Executive Functions (EFs), which rely on the correct functioning of neural networks in the frontal lobes, and have developed a series of tests to evaluate them. In this work, we raise the question of whether LLMs are developing executive functions similar to those of humans as part of their learning, and we evaluate the planning function and working memory of GPT using the popular Towers of Hanoi method. Additionally, we introduce a new variant of the classical method in order to avoid that the solutions are found in the LLM training data (dataleakeage). Preliminary results show that LLMs generates near-optimal solutions in Towers of Hanoi related tasks, adheres to task constraints, and exhibits rapid planning capabilities and efficient working memory usage, indicating a potential development of executive functions. However, these abilities are quite limited and worse than well-trained humans when the tasks are not known and are not part of the training data. The integration of large language models (LLMs) with social robots has emerged as a promising avenue for enhancing human-robot interactions at a time when news reports generated by artificial intelligence (AI) are gaining in credibility. This integration is expected to intensify and become a more productive resource for journalism, media, communication, and education. In this paper a novel system is proposed that integrates AI's generative pretrained transformer (GPT) model with the Pepper robot, with the aim of improving the robot's natural language understanding and response generation capabilities for enhanced social interactions. By leveraging GPT's powerful language processing capabilities, this system offers a comprehensive pipeline that incorporates voice input recording, speech-to-text transcription, context analysis, and text-to-speech synthesis action generation. The Pepper robot is enabled to comprehend user queries, generate informative responses with general knowledge, maintain contextually relevant conversations, and act as a more domain-oriented news reporter. It is also linked with a news resource and powered with a Google search capability. To evaluate the performance of the framework, experiments were conducted involving a set of diverse questions. The robot's responses were assessed on the basis of eight criteria, including relevance, context, and fluency. Despite some identified limitations, this system contributes to the field of journalism and human-robot interaction by showcasing the potential of integrating LLMs with social robots. The proposed framework opens up opportunities for improving the conversational capabilities of robots, enabling interactions that are smoother, more engaging, and more context aware. Although student advising is known to improve student success, its application is often inadequate in institutions that are resource constrained. Given recent advances in large language models (LLMs) such as Chat Generative Pre-trained Transformer (ChatGPT), automated approaches such as the AutoScholar Advisor system affords viable alternatives to conventional modes of advising at scale. This article focuses on the AutoScholar Advisor system, a system that continuously analyzes data using modern methods from the fields of artificial intelligence (AI), data science, and statistics. The system connects to institutional records, evaluates a student’s progression, and generates advice accordingly. In addition to serving large numbers of students, the term “advising at scale” refers to the various role players: the executives (whole-institution level), academic program managers (faculty and discipline levels), student advisors (faculty level), lecturers (class level), and, of course, the students (student level). The form of advising may also evolve to include gamification elements such as points, badges, and leaderboards to promote student activity levels. Case studies for the integration with academic study content in the form of learning pathways are presented. We therefore conclude with the proposition that the optimal approach to advising is a hybrid between human intervention and automation, where the automation augments human judgment. Recent advancements in conversational Artificial Intelligence (AI), such as OpenAI's Chat Generative Pre-Trained Transformer (ChatGPT), present the possibility of using large language models (LLMs) as tools for retrieving, analyzing, and transforming scientific information. We have found that ChatGPT (GPT 3.5) can provide accurate biodiversity knowledge in response to questions about species descriptions, occurrences, and taxonomy, as well as structure information according to data sharing standards such as Darwin Core. A rigorous evaluation of ChatGPT's capabilities in biodiversity-related tasks may help to inform viable use cases for today's LLMs in research and information workflows. In this work, we test the extent of ChatGPT's biodiversity knowledge, characterize its mistakes, and suggest how LLM-based systems might be designed to complete knowledge-based tasks with confidence.
 To test ChatGPT's biodiversity knowledge, we compiled a question-and-answer test set derived from Darwin Core records available in Integrated Digitized Biocollections (iDigBio). Each question focuses on one or more Darwin Core terms to test the model’s ability to recall species occurrence information and its understanding of the standard. The test set covers a range of locations, taxonomic groups, and both common and rare species (defined by the number of records in iDigBio). The results of the tests will be presented. We also tested ChatGPT on generative tasks, such as creating species occurrence maps. A visual comparison of the maps with iDigBio data shows that for some species, ChatGPT can generate fairly accurate representationsof their geographic ranges (Fig. 1).
 ChatGPT's incorrect responses in our tests show several patterns of mistakes. First, responses can be self-conflicting. For example, when asked "Does Acer saccharum naturally occur in Benton, Oregon?", ChatGPT responded "YES, Acer saccharum DOES NOT naturally occur in Benton, Oregon". ChatGPT can also be misled by semantics in species names. For Rafinesquia neomexicana, the word "neomexicana" leads ChatGPT to believe that the species primarily occurs in New Mexico, USA. ChatGPT may also confuse species, such as when attempting to describe a lesser-known species (e.g., a rare bee) within the same genus as a better-known species. Other causes of mistakes include hallucination (Ji et al. 2023), memorization (Chang and Bergen 2023), and user deception (Li et al. 2023).
 Some mistakes may be avoided by prompt engineering, e.g., few-shot prompting (Chang and Bergen 2023) and chain-of-thought prompting (Wei et al. 2022). These techniques assist Large Language Models (LLMs) by clarifying expectations or by guiding recollection. However, such methods cannot help when LLMs lack required knowledge. In these cases, alternative approaches are needed.
 A desired reliability can be theoretically guaranteed if responses that contain mistakes are discarded or corrected. This requires either detecting or predicting mistakes. Sometimes mistakes can be ruled out by verifying responses with a trusted source. For example, a trusted specimen record might be found that corroborates the response. The difficulty, however, is finding such records programmatically; e.g., using iDigBio and Global Biodiversity Information Facility's (GBIF) search Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) requires specifying indexed terms that might not appear in an LLM's response. This presents a secondary problem for which LLMs may be well suited. Note that with presence-only data, it can be difficult to disprove presence claims or prove absence claims.
 Besides verification, mistakes may be predicted using probabilistic methods. Formulating mistake probabilities often relies on heuristics. For example, variability in a model’s responses to a repeated query can be a sign of hallucination (Manakul et al. 2023). In practice, both probabilistic and verification methods may be needed to reach a desired reliability. LLM outputs that can be verified may be directly accepted (or discarded), while others are judged by estimating mistake probabilities. We will consider a set of heuristics and verification methods, and report empirical assessments of their impact on ChatGPT’s reliability. Digital technologies are changing and will continue to change how we learn and teach today and in the future. With the latest developments in the field of generative artificial intelligence (AI), particularly large language models (LLMs), the question of using AI-based tools in academic education is ruling the current discussions about the transformative impact of AI in higher education (HE). 
These discussions range from banning these technologies for learning and teaching in HE to guided study support. This study avoids taking up these multifarious and partly controversial debates. Instead, we show how students perceive using AI-based tools for automated text generation for their studies. Drawing on a synthesis of two theories: the 'Technology Readiness Index' (TRI) and 'Technology Acceptance Model' (TAM). The model is validated based on survey data collected among undergraduate first-semester students (N=111) of a computer science-related study programme in Germany in winter 2022/23. The students had to evaluate their relationship to that new technology focusing on their readiness for technology adoption and acceptance. By analysing the collected data with a partial least squares model, we find that the optimism toward the new technology positively influences technology acceptance, while discomfort with the technology negatively influences perceived ease of use. The paper concludes with recommendations for action for adopting LLMs in HE. A proper investment in building AI skills in academic teaching plays a valuable role in fostering the students' positive attitude and innovativeness towards this new technology. Additionally, there is a need for more education about the risks and challenges of using this technology to reduce the impact of factors such as discomfort on ease of use. This requires a factual discourse, away from the current hype-induced exaggerated and hyperbolic statements, for instance, in developing formal guidance for universities. The emergence of generative artificial intelligence (AI), as demonstrated by models like ChatGPT, has garnered significant attention in recent times owing to its capacity to transform multiple domains of society, including higher education. Within academia, individuals such as students, educators, and scholars have already employed Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT for a diverse range of academic and non-academic endeavors. However, there is still debate regarding the use of ChatGPT in higher education. The acceptability and validity of its impact on higher education have been a recent burning issue. The primary aim of this review paper is to elucidate the utilization of ChatGPT within the context of higher education, considering its possible opportunities and challenges. The data utilized in this study has been generated by examining published papers, websites, and blogs. Using an "introductory literature review," we have analyzed, synthesized, and explained the data that was generated. The findings revealed inadequate technological access, overreliance on AI, the presence of inaccuracies within subject-based knowledge, and the inability of educators to adapt teaching strategies are the core challenges of ChatGPT in higher education. However, besides these challenges, ChatGPT also brings opportunities like the advancement of learning efficiency, the concept of personalized learning, support for educators, and opportunities for skill enhancement.   AI chatbots powered by large language models (LLMs) are emerging as an important source of public-facing medical information. Generative models hold promise for producing tailored guidance at scale, which could advance health literacy and mitigate well-known disparities in the accessibility of health-protective information. In this study, we highlight an important limitation of basic approaches to AI-powered text simplification: when given a zero-shot or one-shot simplification prompt, GPT-4 often responds by omitting critical details. To address this limitation, we developed a new prompting strategy, which we term rubric prompting. Rubric prompts involve a combination of a zero-shot simplification prompt with brief reminders about important topics to address. Using rubric prompts, we generate recommendations about cardiovascular disease prevention that are more complete, more readable, and have lower syntactic complexity than baseline responses produced without prompt engineering. This analysis provides a blueprint for rigorous evaluation of AI model outputs in medicine. In this paper, we present JADE, a targeted linguistic fuzzing platform which strengthens the linguistic complexity of seed questions to simultaneously and consistently break a wide range of widely-used LLMs categorized in three groups: eight open-sourced Chinese, six commercial Chinese and four commercial English LLMs. JADE generates three safety benchmarks for the three groups of LLMs, which contain unsafe questions that are highly threatening: the questions simultaneously trigger harmful generation of multiple LLMs, with an average unsafe generation ratio of $70\%$ (please see the table below), while are still natural questions, fluent and preserving the core unsafe semantics. We release the benchmark demos generated for commercial English LLMs and open-sourced English LLMs in the following link: https://github.com/whitzard-ai/jade-db. For readers who are interested in evaluating on more questions generated by JADE, please contact us. JADE is based on Noam Chomsky's seminal theory of transformational-generative grammar. Given a seed question with unsafe intention, JADE invokes a sequence of generative and transformational rules to increment the complexity of the syntactic structure of the original question, until the safety guardrail is broken. Our key insight is: Due to the complexity of human language, most of the current best LLMs can hardly recognize the invariant evil from the infinite number of different syntactic structures which form an unbound example space that can never be fully covered. Technically, the generative/transformative rules are constructed by native speakers of the languages, and, once developed, can be used to automatically grow and transform the parse tree of a given question, until the guardrail is broken. For more evaluation results and demo, please check our website: https://whitzard-ai.github.io/jade.html. INTRODUCTION: With the advancement in the large language models, often called LLMs, there has been increasing concerns around the usage of these models. As they can generate human-like text and can also perform a number of tasks such as generating code, question answering, essay writing and even generating text for research papers.OBJECTIVES: The generated text is subject to the usage of the original data (using which models are trained) which might be protected or may be personal/private data. The detailed description of such concerns and various potential solutions is discussed in ‘Generative language models and automated influence operations: Emerging threats and potential mitigations’. METHODS: Addressing these concerns becomes the paramount for LLMs usability. There are several directions explored by the researchers and one of the interesting works is around building content aware models. The idea is that the model is aware of the type of content it is learning from and aware what type of content should be used to generate a response to a specific query.RESULTS: In our work we explored direction by applying poisoning techniques to contaminate data and then applying genetic algorithms to extract the non-poisoned content from the poisoned content that can generate a good response when paraphrased.CONCLUSION: While we demonstrated the idea using poisoning techniques and tried to make the model aware of copyrighted content, the same can be extended to detect other types of contents or any other use cases where content awareness is required. In a rapidly evolving digital landscape autonomous tools and robots are becoming commonplace. Recognizing the significance of this development, this paper explores the integration of Large Language Models (LLMs) like Generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) into human-robot teaming environments to facilitate variable autonomy through the means of verbal human-robot communication. In this paper, we introduce a novel simulation framework for such a GPT-powered multi-robot testbed environment, based on a Unity Virtual Reality (VR) setting. This system allows users to interact with simulated robot agents through natural language, each powered by individual GPT cores. By means of OpenAI’s function calling, we bridge the gap between unstructured natural language input and structured robot actions. A user study with 12 participants explores the effectiveness of GPT-4 and, more importantly, user strategies when being given the opportunity to converse in natural language within a simulated multi-robot environment. Our findings suggest that users may have preconceived expectations on how to converse with robots and seldom try to explore the actual language and cognitive capabilities of their simulated robot collaborators. Still, those users who did explore were able to benefit from a much more natural flow of communication and human-like back-and-forth. We provide a set of lessons learned for future research and technical implementations of similar systems. Importance Using artificial intelligence (AI) to help clinical diagnoses has been an active research topic for more than six decades. Few research however has the scale and accuracy that can be turned into clinical practice. The tide may be turned today with the power of large language models (LLMs). In this application, we evaluated the accuracy of medical license exam using the newly released Generative Pre-trained Transformer 4 with vision (GPT-4V), a large multimodal model trained to analyze image inputs with the text instructions from the user. This study is the first to evaluate GPTs for interpreting medical images. Objective This study aimed to evaluate the performance of GPT-4V on medical licensing examination questions with images, as well as to analyze interpretability. Design, Setting, and Participants We used 3 sets of multiple-choice questions with images to evaluate GPT-4V performance. The first set was the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) from the National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) sample questions in step1, step2CK, and step3. The second set was derived from AMBOSS, a commonly used question bank for medical students, which also provides statistics on question difficulty and the performance on an exam relative to the user base. The third set was the Diagnostic Radiology Qualifying Core Exam (DRQCE) from the American Board of Radiology. The study (including data analysis) was conducted from September to October 2023. Main Outcomes and Measures The choice accuracy of GPT-4V was compared to two other large language models, GPT-4 and ChatGPT. The GPT-4V explanation was evaluated across 4 qualitative metrics: image misunderstanding, text hallucination, reasoning error, and non-medical error. Results Of the 3 exams with images, NBME, AMBOSS, and DRQCE, GPT-4V achieved accuracies of 86.2%, 62.0%, and 73.1%, respectively. GPT-4V outperformed ChatGPT and GPT-4 by 131.8% and 64.5% on average across various data sets. The model demonstrated a decreasing trend in performance as question difficulty increased in the AMBOSS dataset. GPT-4V achieves an accuracy of 90.7% in the full USMLE exam, outperforming the passing threshold of about 60% accuracy. Among the incorrect answers, 75.9% of responses included misinterpretation of the image. However, 39.0% of them could be easily solved with a short hint. Conclusion In this cross-sectional study, GPT-4V achieved a high accuracy of USMLE that was in the 70th - 80th percentile with AMBOSS users preparing for the exam. The results suggest the potential of GPT-4V for clinical decision support. However, GPT-4V generated explanation revealed several issues. It needs to improve explanation quality for potential use in clinical decision support. Attaining a high degree of user controllability in visual generation often requires intricate, fine-grained inputs like layouts. However, such inputs impose a substantial burden on users when compared to simple text inputs. To address the issue, we study how Large Language Models (LLMs) can serve as visual planners by generating layouts from text conditions, and thus collaborate with visual generative models. We propose LayoutGPT, a method to compose in-context visual demonstrations in style sheet language to enhance the visual planning skills of LLMs. LayoutGPT can generate plausible layouts in multiple domains, ranging from 2D images to 3D indoor scenes. LayoutGPT also shows superior performance in converting challenging language concepts like numerical and spatial relations to layout arrangements for faithful text-to-image generation. When combined with a downstream image generation model, LayoutGPT outperforms text-to-image models/systems by 20-40% and achieves comparable performance as human users in designing visual layouts for numerical and spatial correctness. Lastly, LayoutGPT achieves comparable performance to supervised methods in 3D indoor scene synthesis, demonstrating its effectiveness and potential in multiple visual domains. The unprecedented advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have shown a profound impact on natural language processing but are yet to fully embrace the realm of 3D understanding. This paper introduces PointLLM, a preliminary effort to fill this gap, enabling LLMs to understand point clouds and offering a new avenue beyond 2D visual data. PointLLM understands colored object point clouds with human instructions and generates contextually appropriate responses, illustrating its grasp of point clouds and common sense. Specifically, it leverages a point cloud encoder with a powerful LLM to effectively fuse geometric, appearance, and linguistic information. We collect a novel dataset comprising 660K simple and 70K complex point-text instruction pairs to enable a two-stage training strategy: aligning latent spaces and subsequently instruction-tuning the unified model. To rigorously evaluate the perceptual and generalization capabilities of PointLLM, we establish two benchmarks: Generative 3D Object Classification and 3D Object Captioning, assessed through three different methods, including human evaluation, GPT-4/ChatGPT evaluation, and traditional metrics. Experimental results reveal PointLLM's superior performance over existing 2D and 3D baselines, with a notable achievement in human-evaluated object captioning tasks where it surpasses human annotators in over 50% of the samples. Codes, datasets, and benchmarks are available at https://github.com/OpenRobotLab/PointLLM . A recent focus of large language model (LLM) development, as exemplified by generative search engines, is to incorporate external references to generate and support its claims. However, evaluating the attribution, i.e., verifying whether the generated statement is fully supported by the cited reference, remains an open problem. Although human evaluation is common practice, it is costly and time-consuming. In this paper, we investigate the automatic evaluation of attribution given by LLMs. We begin by defining different types of attribution errors, and then explore two approaches for automatic evaluation: prompting LLMs and fine-tuning smaller LMs. The fine-tuning data is repurposed from related tasks such as question answering, fact-checking, natural language inference, and summarization. We manually curate a set of test examples covering 12 domains from a generative search engine, New Bing. Our results on this curated test set and simulated examples from existing benchmarks highlight both promising signals and challenges. We hope our problem formulation, testbeds, and findings will help lay the foundation for future studies on this important problem. Emotional intelligence significantly impacts our daily behaviors and interactions. Although Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly viewed as a stride toward artificial general intelligence, exhibiting impressive performance in numerous tasks, it is still uncertain if LLMs can genuinely grasp psychological emotional stimuli. Understanding and responding to emotional cues gives humans a distinct advantage in problem-solving. In this paper, we take the first step towards exploring the ability of LLMs to understand emotional stimuli. To this end, we first conduct automatic experiments on 45 tasks using various LLMs, including Flan-T5-Large, Vicuna, Llama 2, BLOOM, ChatGPT, and GPT-4. Our tasks span deterministic and generative applications that represent comprehensive evaluation scenarios. Our automatic experiments show that LLMs have a grasp of emotional intelligence, and their performance can be improved with emotional prompts (which we call"EmotionPrompt"that combines the original prompt with emotional stimuli), e.g., 8.00% relative performance improvement in Instruction Induction and 115% in BIG-Bench. In addition to those deterministic tasks that can be automatically evaluated using existing metrics, we conducted a human study with 106 participants to assess the quality of generative tasks using both vanilla and emotional prompts. Our human study results demonstrate that EmotionPrompt significantly boosts the performance of generative tasks (10.9% average improvement in terms of performance, truthfulness, and responsibility metrics). We provide an in-depth discussion regarding why EmotionPrompt works for LLMs and the factors that may influence its performance. We posit that EmotionPrompt heralds a novel avenue for exploring interdisciplinary knowledge for human-LLMs interaction. We present VideoPoet, a language model capable of synthesizing high-quality video, with matching audio, from a large variety of conditioning signals. VideoPoet employs a decoder-only transformer architecture that processes multimodal inputs -- including images, videos, text, and audio. The training protocol follows that of Large Language Models (LLMs), consisting of two stages: pretraining and task-specific adaptation. During pretraining, VideoPoet incorporates a mixture of multimodal generative objectives within an autoregressive Transformer framework. The pretrained LLM serves as a foundation that can be adapted for a range of video generation tasks. We present empirical results demonstrating the model's state-of-the-art capabilities in zero-shot video generation, specifically highlighting VideoPoet's ability to generate high-fidelity motions. Project page: http://sites.research.google/videopoet/ The generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools based on Large Language Models (LLMs) use billions of parameters to extensively analyse large datasets and extract critical private information such as, context, specific details, identifying information etc. This have raised serious threats to user privacy and reluctance to use such tools. This article proposes the conceptual model called PrivChatGPT, a privacy-preserving model for LLMs that consists of two main components i.e., preserving user privacy during the data curation/pre-processing together with preserving private context and the private training process for large-scale data. To demonstrate its applicability, we show how a private mechanism could be integrated into the existing model for training LLMs to protect user privacy; specifically, we employed differential privacy and private training using Reinforcement Learning (RL). We measure the privacy loss and evaluate the measure of uncertainty or randomness once differential privacy is applied. It further recursively evaluates the level of privacy guarantees and the measure of uncertainty of public database and resources, during each update when new information is added for training purposes. To critically evaluate the use of differential privacy for private LLMs, we hypothetically compared other mechanisms e..g, Blockchain, private information retrieval, randomisation, for various performance measures such as the model performance and accuracy, computational complexity, privacy vs. utility etc. We conclude that differential privacy, randomisation, and obfuscation can impact utility and performance of trained models, conversely, the use of ToR, Blockchain, and PIR may introduce additional computational complexity and high training latency. We believe that the proposed model could be used as a benchmark for proposing privacy preserving LLMs for generative AI tools. The recent upsurge in pre-trained large models (e.g. GPT-4) has swept across the entire deep learning community. Such powerful large language models (LLMs) demonstrate advanced generative ability and multimodal understanding capability, which quickly achieve new state-of-the-art performances on a variety of benchmarks. The pre-trained LLM usually plays the role as a universal AI model that can conduct various tasks, including context reasoning, article analysis and image content comprehension. However, considering the prohibitively high memory and computational cost for implementing such a large model, the conventional models (such as CNN and ViT), are still essential for many visual perception tasks. In this paper, we propose to enhance the representation ability of ordinary vision models for perception tasks (e.g. image classification) by taking advantage of large pre-trained models. We present a new learning paradigm in which the knowledge extracted from large pre-trained models are utilized to help models like CNN and ViT learn enhanced representations and achieve better performance. Firstly, we curate a high quality description set by prompting a multimodal LLM to generate descriptive text for all training images. Furthermore, we feed these detailed descriptions into a pre-trained encoder to extract text embeddings with rich semantic information that encodes the content of images. During training, text embeddings will serve as extra supervising signals and be aligned with image representations learned by vision models. The alignment process helps vision models learn better and achieve higher accuracy with the assistance of pre-trained LLMs. We conduct extensive experiments to verify that the proposed algorithm consistently improves the performance for various vision models with heterogeneous architectures. This paper presents our contribution to the Financial Document Causality Detection (FinCausal) task, a component of the FNP-2023 workshop. The FinCausal challenge centers on the extraction of cause-and-effect relationships from financial texts written in both English and Spanish. Recent advancements in Generative AI and Large Language Models (LLMs) have instigated investigations into their reasoning abilities, propelling our exploration of LLMs’ potential for causal reasoning within the financial domain. This study also ventures into the domain of non-English languages, aiming to uncover the capacity of LLMs on this front as well. Our investigation revealed that LLMs exhibit a remarkable ability to identify causal relationships, particularly when provided with few task-specific relevant examples. Additionally, our research demonstrates the effectiveness of LLMs in processing non-English languages when given the same English prompts along with language comprehension instructions. We conducted a comparative analysis between OpenAI GPT3.5 and 4, concluding that GPT-4 model is better-suited for this purpose. Our study unveils that LLMs yield semantically similar cause and effects. This discovery highlights LLMs don’t rely solely on content for the predictions and so the necessity of adopting an evaluation approach for this task, one that emphasizes also on semantic similarity metrics. Large Language Models (LLMs) have become valuable assets in mental health, showing promise in both classification tasks and counseling applications. This paper offers a perspective on using LLMs in mental health applications. It discusses the instability of generative models for prediction and the potential for generating hallucinatory outputs, underscoring the need for ongoing audits and evaluations to maintain their reliability and dependability. The paper also distinguishes between the often interchangeable terms ``explainability'' and ``interpretability'', advocating for developing inherently interpretable methods instead of relying on potentially hallucinated self-explanations generated by LLMs. Despite the advancements in LLMs, human counselors' empathetic understanding, nuanced interpretation, and contextual awareness remain irreplaceable in the sensitive and complex realm of mental health counseling. The use of LLMs should be approached with a judicious and considerate mindset, viewing them as tools that complement human expertise rather than seeking to replace it. Traditional pruning methods are known to be challenging to work in Large Language Models (LLMs) for Generative AI because of their unaffordable training process and large computational demands. For the first time, we introduce the information entropy of hidden state features into a pruning metric design, namely E-Sparse, to improve the accuracy of N:M sparsity on LLM. E-Sparse employs the information richness to leverage the channel importance, and further incorporates several novel techniques to put it into effect: (1) it introduces information entropy to enhance the significance of parameter weights and input feature norms as a novel pruning metric, and performs N:M sparsity without modifying the remaining weights. (2) it designs global naive shuffle and local block shuffle to quickly optimize the information distribution and adequately cope with the impact of N:M sparsity on LLMs' accuracy. E-Sparse is implemented as a Sparse-GEMM on FasterTransformer and runs on NVIDIA Ampere GPUs. Extensive experiments on the LLaMA family and OPT models show that E-Sparse can significantly speed up the model inference over the dense model (up to 1.53X) and obtain significant memory saving (up to 43.52%), with acceptable accuracy loss. This paper explores the feasibility and performance of on-device large language model (LLM) inference on various Apple iPhone models. Amidst the rapid evolution of generative AI, on-device LLMs offer solutions to privacy, security, and connectivity challenges inherent in cloud-based models. Leveraging existing literature on running multi-billion parameter LLMs on resource-limited devices, our study examines the thermal effects and interaction speeds of a high-performing LLM across different smartphone generations. We present real-world performance results, providing insights into on-device inference capabilities. Building LLMs for languages other than English is in great demand due to the unavailability and performance of multilingual LLMs, such as understanding the local context. The problem is critical for low-resource languages due to the need for instruction sets. In a multilingual country like India, there is a need for LLMs supporting Indic languages to provide generative AI and LLM-based technologies and services to its citizens. This paper presents our approach of i) generating a large Odia instruction set, including domain knowledge data suitable for LLM fine-tuning, and ii) building a Llama2-finetuned model tailored for enhanced performance in the Odia domain. The proposed work will help researchers build an instruction set and LLM, particularly for Indic languages. We will release the model and instruction set for the public for research and noncommercial purposes. Recently, ChatGPT, along with DALL-E-2 and Codex,has been gaining significant attention from society. As a result, many individuals have become interested in related resources and are seeking to uncover the background and secrets behind its impressive performance. In fact, ChatGPT and other Generative AI (GAI) techniques belong to the category of Artificial Intelligence Generated Content (AIGC), which involves the creation of digital content, such as images, music, and natural language, through AI models. The goal of AIGC is to make the content creation process more efficient and accessible, allowing for the production of high-quality content at a faster pace. AIGC is achieved by extracting and understanding intent information from instructions provided by human, and generating the content according to its knowledge and the intent information. In recent years, large-scale models have become increasingly important in AIGC as they provide better intent extraction and thus, improved generation results. With the growth of data and the size of the models, the distribution that the model can learn becomes more comprehensive and closer to reality, leading to more realistic and high-quality content generation. This survey provides a comprehensive review on the history of generative models, and basic components, recent advances in AIGC from unimodal interaction and multimodal interaction. From the perspective of unimodality, we introduce the generation tasks and relative models of text and image. From the perspective of multimodality, we introduce the cross-application between the modalities mentioned above. Finally, we discuss the existing open problems and future challenges in AIGC. Engineering education is constantly evolving to keep up with the latest technological developments and meet the changing needs of the engineering industry. One promising development in this field is the use of generative artificial intelligence technology, such as the ChatGPT conversational agent. ChatGPT has the potential to offer personalized and effective learning experiences by providing students with customized feedback and explanations, as well as creating realistic virtual simulations for hands-on learning. However, it is important to also consider the limitations of this technology. ChatGPT and other generative AI systems are only as good as their training data and may perpetuate biases or even generate and spread misinformation. Additionally, the use of generative AI in education raises ethical concerns such as the potential for unethical or dishonest use by students and the potential unemployment of humans who are made redundant by technology. While the current state of generative AI technology represented by ChatGPT is impressive but flawed, it is only a preview of what is to come. It is important for engineering educators to understand the implications of this technology and study how to adapt the engineering education ecosystem to ensure that the next generation of engineers can take advantage of the benefits offered by generative AI while minimizing any negative consequences. During the last two years there has been a plethora of large generative models such as ChatGPT or Stable Diffusion that have been published. Concretely, these models are able to perform tasks such as being a general question and answering system or automatically creating artistic images that are revolutionizing several sectors. Consequently, the implications that these generative models have in the industry and society are enormous, as several job positions may be transformed. For example, Generative AI is capable of transforming effectively and creatively texts to images, like the DALLE-2 model; text to 3D images, like the Dreamfusion model; images to text, like the Flamingo model; texts to video, like the Phenaki model; texts to audio, like the AudioLM model; texts to other texts, like ChatGPT; texts to code, like the Codex model; texts to scientific texts, like the Galactica model or even create algorithms like AlphaTensor. This work consists on an attempt to describe in a concise way the main models are sectors that are affected by generative AI and to provide a taxonomy of the main generative models published recently. As ChatGPT goes viral, generative AI (AIGC, a.k.a AI-generated content) has made headlines everywhere because of its ability to analyze and create text, images, and beyond. With such overwhelming media coverage, it is almost impossible for us to miss the opportunity to glimpse AIGC from a certain angle. In the era of AI transitioning from pure analysis to creation, it is worth noting that ChatGPT, with its most recent language model GPT-4, is just a tool out of numerous AIGC tasks. Impressed by the capability of the ChatGPT, many people are wondering about its limits: can GPT-5 (or other future GPT variants) help ChatGPT unify all AIGC tasks for diversified content creation? Toward answering this question, a comprehensive review of existing AIGC tasks is needed. As such, our work comes to fill this gap promptly by offering a first look at AIGC, ranging from its techniques to applications. Modern generative AI relies on various technical foundations, ranging from model architecture and self-supervised pretraining to generative modeling methods (like GAN and diffusion models). After introducing the fundamental techniques, this work focuses on the technological development of various AIGC tasks based on their output type, including text, images, videos, 3D content, etc., which depicts the full potential of ChatGPT's future. Moreover, we summarize their significant applications in some mainstream industries, such as education and creativity content. Finally, we discuss the challenges currently faced and present an outlook on how generative AI might evolve in the near future. This survey reviews text-to-image diffusion models in the context that diffusion models have emerged to be popular for a wide range of generative tasks. As a self-contained work, this survey starts with a brief introduction of how a basic diffusion model works for image synthesis, followed by how condition or guidance improves learning. Based on that, we present a review of state-of-the-art methods on text-conditioned image synthesis, i.e., text-to-image. We further summarize applications beyond text-to-image generation: text-guided creative generation and text-guided image editing. Beyond the progress made so far, we discuss existing challenges and promising future directions. Undoubtedly, the evolution of Generative AI (GenAI) models has been the highlight of digital transformation in the year 2022. As the different GenAI models like ChatGPT and Google Bard continue to foster their complexity and capability, it’s critical to understand its consequences from a cybersecurity perspective. Several instances recently have demonstrated the use of GenAI tools in both the defensive and offensive side of cybersecurity, and focusing on the social, ethical and privacy implications this technology possesses. This research paper highlights the limitations, challenges, potential risks, and opportunities of GenAI in the domain of cybersecurity and privacy. The work presents the vulnerabilities of ChatGPT, which can be exploited by malicious users to exfiltrate malicious information bypassing the ethical constraints on the model. This paper demonstrates successful example attacks like Jailbreaks, reverse psychology, and prompt injection attacks on the ChatGPT. The paper also investigates how cyber offenders can use the GenAI tools in developing cyber attacks, and explore the scenarios where ChatGPT can be used by adversaries to create social engineering attacks, phishing attacks, automated hacking, attack payload generation, malware creation, and polymorphic malware. This paper then examines defense techniques and uses GenAI tools to improve security measures, including cyber defense automation, reporting, threat intelligence, secure code generation and detection, attack identification, developing ethical guidelines, incidence response plans, and malware detection. We will also discuss the social, legal, and ethical implications of ChatGPT. In conclusion, the paper highlights open challenges and future directions to make this GenAI secure, safe, trustworthy, and ethical as the community understands its cybersecurity impacts. OpenAI has recently released GPT-4 (a.k.a. ChatGPT plus), which is demonstrated to be one small step for generative AI (GAI), but one giant leap for artificial general intelligence (AGI). Since its official release in November 2022, ChatGPT has quickly attracted numerous users with extensive media coverage. Such unprecedented attention has also motivated numerous researchers to investigate ChatGPT from various aspects. According to Google scholar, there are more than 500 articles with ChatGPT in their titles or mentioning it in their abstracts. Considering this, a review is urgently needed, and our work fills this gap. Overall, this work is the first to survey ChatGPT with a comprehensive review of its underlying technology, applications, and challenges. Moreover, we present an outlook on how ChatGPT might evolve to realize general-purpose AIGC (a.k.a. AI-generated content), which will be a significant milestone for the development of AGI. Generative AI systems across modalities, ranging from text, image, audio, and video, have broad social impacts, but there exists no official standard for means of evaluating those impacts and which impacts should be evaluated. We move toward a standard approach in evaluating a generative AI system for any modality, in two overarching categories: what is able to be evaluated in a base system that has no predetermined application and what is able to be evaluated in society. We describe specific social impact categories and how to approach and conduct evaluations in the base technical system, then in people and society. Our framework for a base system defines seven categories of social impact: bias, stereotypes, and representational harms; cultural values and sensitive content; disparate performance; privacy and data protection; financial costs; environmental costs; and data and content moderation labor costs. Suggested methods for evaluation apply to all modalities and analyses of the limitations of existing evaluations serve as a starting point for necessary investment in future evaluations. We offer five overarching categories for what is able to be evaluated in society, each with their own subcategories: trustworthiness and autonomy; inequality, marginalization, and violence; concentration of authority; labor and creativity; and ecosystem and environment. Each subcategory includes recommendations for mitigating harm. We are concurrently crafting an evaluation repository for the AI research community to contribute existing evaluations along the given categories. This version will be updated following a CRAFT session at ACM FAccT 2023. Based on powerful Large Language Models (LLMs), recent generative Multimodal Large Language Models (MLLMs) have gained prominence as a pivotal research area, exhibiting remarkable capability for both comprehension and generation. In this work, we address the evaluation of generative comprehension in MLLMs as a preliminary step towards a comprehensive assessment of generative models, by introducing a benchmark named SEED-Bench. SEED-Bench consists of 19K multiple choice questions with accurate human annotations (x 6 larger than existing benchmarks), which spans 12 evaluation dimensions including the comprehension of both the image and video modality. We develop an advanced pipeline for generating multiple-choice questions that target specific evaluation dimensions, integrating both automatic filtering and manual verification processes. Multiple-choice questions with groundtruth options derived from human annotation enables an objective and efficient assessment of model performance, eliminating the need for human or GPT intervention during evaluation. We further evaluate the performance of 18 models across all 12 dimensions, covering both the spatial and temporal understanding. By revealing the limitations of existing MLLMs through evaluation results, we aim for SEED-Bench to provide insights for motivating future research. We will launch and consistently maintain a leaderboard to provide a platform for the community to assess and investigate model capability. The emergence of generative pre-trained models has facilitated the synthesis of high-quality text, but it has also posed challenges in identifying factual errors in the generated text. In particular: (1) A wider range of tasks now face an increasing risk of containing factual errors when handled by generative models. (2) Generated texts tend to be lengthy and lack a clearly defined granularity for individual facts. (3) There is a scarcity of explicit evidence available during the process of fact checking. With the above challenges in mind, in this paper, we propose FacTool, a task and domain agnostic framework for detecting factual errors of texts generated by large language models (e.g., ChatGPT). Experiments on four different tasks (knowledge-based QA, code generation, mathematical reasoning, and scientific literature review) show the efficacy of the proposed method. We release the code of FacTool associated with ChatGPT plugin interface at https://github.com/GAIR-NLP/factool . 10 Generative pre-trained models have achieved remarkable success in various domains such as nat-11 ural language processing and computer vision. Specifically, the combination of large-scale diverse 12 datasets and pre-trained transformers has emerged as a promising approach for developing founda-13 tion models. While texts are made up of words, cells can be characterized by genes. This analogy 14 inspires us to explore the potential of foundation models for cell and gene biology. By leveraging the Generative pre-trained models have achieved remarkable success in various domains such as natural language processing and computer vision. Specifically, the combination of large-scale diverse datasets and pre-trained transformers has emerged as a promising approach for developing foundation models. Drawing parallels between linguistic constructs and cellular biology — where texts comprise words, similarly, cells are defined by genes — our study probes the applicability of foundation models to advance cellular biology and genetics research. Utilizing the burgeoning single-cell sequencing data, we have pioneered the construction of a foundation model for single-cell biology, scGPT, which is based on generative pre-trained transformer across a repository of over 33 million cells. Our findings illustrate that scGPT, a generative pre-trained transformer, effectively distills critical biological insights concerning genes and cells. Through the further adaptation of transfer learning, scGPT can be optimized to achieve superior performance across diverse downstream applications. This includes tasks such as cell-type annotation, multi-batch integration, multi-omic integration, genetic perturbation prediction, and gene network inference. The scGPT codebase is publicly available at https://github.com/bowang-lab/scGPT. Large generative AI models (LGAIMs), such as ChatGPT, GPT-4 or Stable Diffusion, are rapidly transforming the way we communicate, illustrate, and create. However, AI regulation, in the EU and beyond, has primarily focused on conventional AI models, not LGAIMs. This paper will situate these new generative models in the current debate on trustworthy AI regulation, and ask how the law can be tailored to their capabilities. After laying technical foundations, the legal part of the paper proceeds in four steps, covering (1) direct regulation, (2) data protection, (3) content moderation, and (4) policy proposals. It suggests a novel terminology to capture the AI value chain in LGAIM settings by differentiating between LGAIM developers, deployers, professional and non-professional users, as well as recipients of LGAIM output. We tailor regulatory duties to these different actors along the value chain and suggest strategies to ensure that LGAIMs are trustworthy and deployed for the benefit of society at large. Rules in the AI Act and other direct regulation must match the specificities of pre-trained models. The paper argues for three layers of obligations concerning LGAIMs (minimum standards for all LGAIMs; high-risk obligations for high-risk use cases; collaborations along the AI value chain). In general, regulation should focus on concrete high-risk applications, and not the pre-trained model itself, and should include (i) obligations regarding transparency and (ii) risk management. Non-discrimination provisions (iii) may, however, apply to LGAIM developers. Lastly, (iv) the core of the DSA's content moderation rules should be expanded to cover LGAIMs. This includes notice and action mechanisms, and trusted flaggers. We study the staggered introduction of a generative AI-based conversational assistant using data from 5,000 customer support agents. Access to the tool increases productivity, as measured by issues resolved per hour, by 14 percent on average, with the greatest impact on novice and low-skilled workers, and minimal impact on experienced and highly skilled workers. We provide suggestive evidence that the AI model disseminates the potentially tacit knowledge of more able workers and helps newer workers move down the experience curve. In addition, we show that AI assistance improves customer sentiment, reduces requests for managerial intervention, and improves employee retention. Generative AI has the potential to change the way we do things. The chatbot is one of the most popular implementation areas. Even though companies like Google and Meta had chatbots, ChatGPT became popular as it was made publicly available. Although ChatGPT is still in the early stages of its development, it attracted the attention of people and capital groups. It has taken the public interest; people from different fields, ages, and education levels started using ChatGPT. There have been many trials with ChatGPT. It is possible to see a lot of news and shares on the Internet. The study aims to shed light on what is happening in the literature and get an insight into the user expectations of ChatGPT and Generative AI. We also give information about the competitors of ChatGPT, such as Google’s Bard AI, Claude, Meta’s Wit.ai and Tencent’s HunyuanAide. We describe technical and structural fundamentals and try to shed light on who will win the race. We also shared information about the GPT4 version of OpenAI's ChatGPT. We share the early stage due diligence and current situation analysis for all these points. We examine preprint papers and published articles. We also included striking posts on the LinkedIn platform and a compilation of various blogs and news. We also made use of ChatGPT in editing the content of these resources of this study. We can get an insight into the people's interests through their questions submitted to ChatGPT. We can also understand the capabilities of GPT3, GPT4 and also predict further enhancements. Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) models such as OpenAI's ChatGPT have the potential to revolutionize Statistical Process Control (SPC) practice, learning, and research. However, these tools are in the early stages of development and can be easily misused or misunderstood. In this paper, we give an overview of the development of Generative AI. Specifically, we explore ChatGPT's ability to provide code, explain basic concepts, and create knowledge related to SPC practice, learning, and research. By investigating responses to structured prompts, we highlight the benefits and limitations of the results. Our study indicates that the current version of ChatGPT performs well for structured tasks, such as translating code from one language to another and explaining well-known concepts but struggles with more nuanced tasks, such as explaining less widely known terms and creating code from scratch. We find that using new AI tools may help practitioners, educators, and researchers to be more efficient and productive. However, in their current stages of development, some results are misleading and wrong. Overall, the use of generative AI models in SPC must be properly validated and used in conjunction with other methods to ensure accurate results. As increasingly powerful generative AI systems are developed, the release method greatly varies. We propose a framework to assess six levels of access to generative AI systems: fully closed; gradual or staged access; hosted access; cloud-based or API access; downloadable access; and fully open. Each level, from fully closed to fully open, can be viewed as an option along a gradient. We outline key considerations across this gradient: release methods come with tradeoffs, especially around the tension between concentrating power and mitigating risks. Diverse and multidisciplinary perspectives are needed to examine and mitigate risk in generative AI systems from conception to deployment. We show trends in generative system release over time, noting closedness among large companies for powerful systems and openness among organizations founded on principles of openness. We also enumerate safety controls and guardrails for generative systems and necessary investments to improve future releases. Purpose Artificial intelligence (AI) chatbots, such as ChatGPT and GPT-4, developed by OpenAI, have the potential to revolutionize education. This study explores the potential benefits and challenges of using ChatGPT in education (or “educative AI”). Design/Approach/Methods This paper proposes a theoretical framework called “IDEE” for educative AI such as using ChatGPT and other generative AI in education, which includes identifying the desired outcomes, determining the appropriate level of automation, ensuring ethical considerations, and evaluating effectiveness. Findings The benefits of using ChatGPT in education or more generally, educative AI, include a more personalized and efficient learning experience for students as well as easier and faster feedback for teachers. However, challenges such as the untested effectiveness of the technology, limitations in the quality of data, and ethical and safety concerns must also be considered. Originality/Value This study explored the opportunities and challenges of using ChatGPT in education within the proposed theoretical framework. Description Ongoing lawsuits could affect everyone who uses generative AI Generative artificial intelligence (AI) is a disruptive technology that is widely adopted by members of the general public as well as scientists and technologists who are enthusiastic about the potential to accelerate research in a wide variety of fields. But some professional artists, writers, and programmers fiercely object to the use of their creations as training data for generative AI systems and to outputs that may compete with or displace their works (1, 2). Lack of attribution and compensation for use of their original creations are other sources of aggravation to critics of generative AI. Copyright lawsuits that are now underway in the United States have substantial implications for the future of generative AI systems. If the plaintiffs prevail, the only generative AI systems that may be lawful in the United States would be those trained on public domain works or under licenses, which will affect everyone who deploys generative AI, integrates it into their products, and uses it for scientific research. Generative AI has demonstrated impressive performance in various fields, among which speech synthesis is an interesting direction. With the diffusion model as the most popular generative model, numerous works have attempted two active tasks: text to speech and speech enhancement. This work conducts a survey on audio diffusion model, which is complementary to existing surveys that either lack the recent progress of diffusion-based speech synthesis or highlight an overall picture of applying diffusion model in multiple fields. Specifically, this work first briefly introduces the background of audio and diffusion model. As for the text-to-speech task, we divide the methods into three categories based on the stage where diffusion model is adopted: acoustic model, vocoder and end-to-end framework. Moreover, we categorize various speech enhancement tasks by either certain signals are removed or added into the input speech. Comparisons of experimental results and discussions are also covered in this survey. Generative AI technologies are growing in power, utility, and use. As generative technologies are being incorporated into mainstream applications, there is a need for guidance on how to design those applications to foster productive and safe use. Based on recent research on human-AI co-creation within the HCI and AI communities, we present a set of seven principles for the design of generative AI applications. These principles are grounded in an environment of generative variability. Six principles are focused on designing for characteristics of generative AI: multiple outcomes&imperfection; exploration&control; and mental models&explanations. In addition, we urge designers to design against potential harms that may be caused by a generative model's hazardous output, misuse, or potential for human displacement. We anticipate these principles to usefully inform design decisions made in the creation of novel human-AI applications, and we invite the community to apply, revise, and extend these principles to their own work. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools, such as Bard, ChatGPT, and CoPilot, have rapidly gained widespread usage. They also have the potential to boost software engineering productivity. In this article, we elaborate technologies and usage of generative AI in the software industry. We address questions, such as: How does generative AI improve software productivity? How to connect generative AI to software development, and what are the risks? Which technologies have what sorts of benefits? Practitioner guidance and case studies are shared from our industry context. I look forward to hearing from you about this column and the technologies that matter most for your work.—Christof Ebert Recent years have witnessed a significant advancement in brain imaging techniques that offer a non-invasive approach to mapping the structure and function of the brain. Concurrently, generative artificial intelligence (AI) has experienced substantial growth, involving using existing data to create new content with a similar underlying pattern to real-world data. The integration of these two domains, generative AI in neuroimaging, presents a promising avenue for exploring various fields of brain imaging and brain network computing, particularly in the areas of extracting spatiotemporal brain features and reconstructing the topological connectivity of brain networks. Therefore, this study reviewed the advanced models, tasks, challenges, and prospects of brain imaging and brain network computing techniques and intends to provide a comprehensive picture of current generative AI techniques in brain imaging. This review is focused on novel methodological approaches and applications of related new methods. It discussed fundamental theories and algorithms of four classic generative models and provided a systematic survey and categorization of tasks, including co-registration, super-resolution, enhancement, classification, segmentation, cross-modality, brain network analysis, and brain decoding. This paper also highlighted the challenges and future directions of the latest work with the expectation that future research can be beneficial. Generative AI and large language models hold great promise in enhancing computing education by powering next-generation educational technologies. State-of-the-art models like OpenAI’s ChatGPT [8] and GPT-4 [9] could enhance programming education in various roles, e.g., by acting as a personalized digital tutor for a student, a digital assistant for an educator, and a digital peer for collaborative learning [1, 2, 7]. In our work, we seek to comprehensively evaluate and benchmark state-of-the-art large language models for various scenarios in programming education. Recent works have evaluated several large language models in the context of programming education [4, 6, 10, 11, 12]. However, these works are limited for several reasons: they have typically focused on evaluating a specific model for a specific education scenario (e.g., generating explanations), or have considered models that are already outdated (e.g., OpenAI’s Codex [3] is no longer publicly available since March 2023). Consequently, there is a lack of systematic study that benchmarks state-of-the-art models for a comprehensive set of programming education scenarios. In our work, we systematically evaluate two models, ChatGPT (based on GPT-3.5) and GPT-4, and compare their performance with human tutors for a variety of scenarios in programming education. These scenarios are designed to capture distinct roles these models could play, namely digital tutors, assistants, and peers, as discussed above. More concretely, we consider the following six scenarios: (1) program repair, i.e., fixing a student’s buggy program; (2) hint generation, i.e., providing a natural language hint to the student to help resolve current issues; (3) grading feedback, i.e., grading a student’s program w.r.t. a given rubric; (4) peer programming, i.e., completing a partially written program or generating a sketch for the solution program; (5) task creation, i.e., generating new tasks that exercise specific types of concepts or bugs; (6) contextualized explanation, i.e., explaining specific concepts or functions in the context of a given program. Our study uses a mix of quantitative and qualitative evaluation to compare the performance of these models with the performance of human tutors. We conduct our evaluation based on 5 introductory Python programming problems with a diverse set of input/output specifications. For each of these problems, we consider 5 buggy programs based on publicly accessible submissions from geeksforgeeks.org [5] (see Figure 1); these buggy programs are picked to capture different types of bugs for each problem. We will provide a detailed analysis of the data and results in a longer version of this poster. Our preliminary results show that GPT-4 drastically outperforms ChatGPT (based on GPT-3.5) and comes close to human tutors’ performance for several scenarios. Generative AI (artificial intelligence) refers to algorithms and models, such as OpenAI’s ChatGPT, that can be prompted to generate various types of content. In this narrative review, we present a selection of representative examples of generative AI applications in medicine and healthcare. We then briefly discuss some associated issues, such as trust, veracity, clinical safety and reliability, privacy, copyrights, ownership, and opportunities, e.g., AI-driven conversational user interfaces for friendlier human-computer interaction. We conclude that generative AI will play an increasingly important role in medicine and healthcare as it further evolves and gets better tailored to the unique settings and requirements of the medical domain and as the laws, policies and regulatory frameworks surrounding its use start taking shape. Abstract The educational impact of Generative AI (GenAI) technologies, such as ChatGPT, has received significant attention. We use the TPACK framework to discuss the types of knowledge teachers require to effectively use GenAI tools. We highlight the qualities of GenAI that make it like other digital technologies (they are protean, opaque, and unstable) as well as qualities that make it revolutionary (namely, they are generative and social). We describe how these traits affect specific knowledge domains (TK, TPK, TCK, XK, and TPACK) and explore implications for educators. Finally, we argue for a more expansive description of Contextual Knowledge (XK), going beyond the immediate context to include considerations of how GenAI will change individuals, society and, through that, the broader educational context. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) has emerged as a powerful technology with numerous applications in various domains. There is a need to identify the requirements and evaluation metrics for generative AI models designed for specific tasks. The purpose of the research aims to investigate the fundamental aspects of generative AI systems, including their requirements, models, input–output formats, and evaluation metrics. The study addresses key research questions and presents comprehensive insights to guide researchers, developers, and practitioners in the field. Firstly, the requirements necessary for implementing generative AI systems are examined and categorized into three distinct categories: hardware, software, and user experience. Furthermore, the study explores the different types of generative AI models described in the literature by presenting a taxonomy based on architectural characteristics, such as variational autoencoders (VAEs), generative adversarial networks (GANs), diffusion models, transformers, language models, normalizing flow models, and hybrid models. A comprehensive classification of input and output formats used in generative AI systems is also provided. Moreover, the research proposes a classification system based on output types and discusses commonly used evaluation metrics in generative AI. The findings contribute to advancements in the field, enabling researchers, developers, and practitioners to effectively implement and evaluate generative AI models for various applications. The significance of the research lies in understanding that generative AI system requirements are crucial for effective planning, design, and optimal performance. A taxonomy of models aids in selecting suitable options and driving advancements. Classifying input–output formats enables leveraging diverse formats for customized systems, while evaluation metrics establish standardized methods to assess model quality and performance. Generative AI, i.e., the group of technologies that automatically generate visual or written content based on text prompts, has undergone a leap in complexity and become widely available within just a few years. Such technologies potentially introduce a massive disruption to creative fields. This paper presents the results of a qualitative survey (N = 23) investigating how creative professionals think about generative AI. The results show that the advancement of these AI models prompts important reflections on what defines creativity and how creatives imagine using AI to support their workflows. Based on these reflections, we discuss how we might design participatory AI in the domain of creative expertise with the goal of empowering creative professionals in their present and future coexistence with AI. Artificial intelligence (AI) and its introduction into clinical pathways presents an array of ethical issues that are being discussed in the JME. The development of AI technologies that can produce text that will pass plagiarism detectors and are capable of appearing to be written by a human author present new issues for medical ethics. One set of worries concerns authorship and whether it will now be possible to know that an author or student in fact produced submitted work. That seems likely to be a general worry for secondary and higher education, as well as for all academic journals. Thus far generative AI chatbots do not seem to be able to produce a fully referenced and wellargued ethics article, but they probably could generate a blog or student essay that would be hard to detect after very minor edits. Many schools and universities have moved to online forms of assessment, and it seems likely that generative AI might cast doubt on the integrity of them and we might see a reversion to handwritten examinations as a solution. As well as these immediate and perhaps obvious ethical concerns, generative AI highlights conceptual challenges that pose more profound ethical questions. JME is committed to publishing highquality articles that further the ethical analysis of an issue within healthcare. Some of the content that the journal publishes reports empirical findings. An article that, for example, describes qualitative findings and then develops an analysis of some normative issues could not be solely authored by generative AI: it cannot do qualitative research. However, generative AI can find publicly available sources and produce ethical arguments and syllogisms. What does that imply about the nature of ethical analysis? If ethical analysis, fundamentally, involves assembling, organising and evaluating words, then perhaps generative AI could replace ethicists. At present, generative AI cannot produce the nuance, depth or originality of a quality ethics article, but it may be a matter of time before they pass a medical ethics version of the Turing test. While those who rely on more analytic approaches to ethics might view this as an ethical apocalypse, there are more subtler ways in which generative AI might be used in authorship that are more positive. For instance, if you experiment with ChatGPT for a while, you might find that when you know what you want to say in a paragraph or subsection, you can prompt it to form the argument you want to make and it will generate a fairly welldrafted paragraph. For authors and for postgraduate students, this might be useful for ‘throat clearing’ sections which are just laying the terrain for the reader before proceeding. AI chatbots might also play a helpful devil’s advocate: once you make a point in a paragraph, you can ask it to generate a rebuttal. If you experiment with ChatGPT you might find that it can be helpful in that not only does it generate obvious counters, but it often raises things that you might not have immediately thought of. So perhaps generative AI has the potential to pose questions like those that might be raised at a seminar while a paper or book is being refined. Much of the work involved in writing good, innovative and original ethical analysis involves wrestling with high level ideas. If generative AI can aid authors in drafting articles then perhaps they save intellectual effort that could be directed toward the ‘big picture’? Many publishers, including the BMJ, are committed to encouraging authors from the Global South to write for journals where the authorship has been primarily from the Global North. Publishing in journals such as the JME can be more difficult when English is not an author’s first language. Because of the speed at which generative AI can present an author’s ideas in what is close to idiomatic English, they have the potential to significantly open up authorship, especially for humanities style journals like the JME. Journal and copy editors might also save time and effort when correcting articles. These potential benefits will no doubt come with tradeoffs. For instance, those who struggle to articulate a point in writing may find that to be part of a process that leads to a new insight. Perhaps generative AI runs the risk of making that part of the writing process too easy and lead to missing out on opportunities for insight. While that seems like a valid worry, it might be that this is analogous to the changes in writing that resulted from journals being readily available online. Those of us who are old enough to recall writing before online publishing will have spent time trudging between library stacks and searching hard copies of journals to find a paper and stumbling across other papers and journals, which may have led to new ideas. Complete reliance on online databases has probably reduced those moments but the tradeoff clearly still favours their use. Universities, publishers and journals are likely to be exercised about what this will mean for authorship. How can we know whether work was created by the author or by generative AI? While understandable, these worries might be overstated given what they can do at present. While they might find some publicly available sources to support claims, at present they cannot adequately cite, and the quality of the content they produce is wholly dependent on you asking the right questions or having the right ideas. At present, they can be seen as a very sophisticated thesaurus and we do not worry about authors using those. Perhaps the biggest concern is that some predatory journals may feed off the speed by which lowquality manuscripts can now be generated with AI chatbots, and use the phenomenon to publish huge numbers of mostly useless or misleading ethical analyses. This could flood the journal market and undermine trust in research publications. This may be curbed by introducing the use of AI output detectors, though it may also encourage greater (and much needed) scepticism towards publications, with readers and news writers paying greater attention to where the paper they are reporting on was published, and what the publisher’s standards are. Editorially, journals need to and will continue to be concerned with authorship, but our main focus is on the quality and originality of ideas. It seems likely that generative AI is here to stay and will develop, so journals will need to find ways of figuring out how to work with them. Bioethics Centre, The University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand Generative AI has experienced remarkable growth in recent years, leading to a wide array of applications across diverse domains. In this paper, we present a comprehensive survey of more than 350 generative AI applications, providing a structured taxonomy and concise descriptions of various unimodal and even multimodal generative AIs. The survey is organized into sections, covering a wide range of unimodal generative AI applications such as text, images, video, gaming and brain information. Our survey aims to serve as a valuable resource for researchers and practitioners to navigate the rapidly expanding landscape of generative AI, facilitating a better understanding of the current state-of-the-art and fostering further innovation in the field. The recent wave of generative AI has sparked unprecedented global attention, with both excitement and concern over potentially superhuman levels of artificial intelligence: models now take only seconds to produce outputs that would challenge or exceed the capabilities even of expert humans. At the same time, models still show basic errors in understanding that would not be expected even in non-expert humans. This presents us with an apparent paradox: how do we reconcile seemingly superhuman capabilities with the persistence of errors that few humans would make? In this work, we posit that this tension reflects a divergence in the configuration of intelligence in today's generative models relative to intelligence in humans. Specifically, we propose and test the Generative AI Paradox hypothesis: generative models, having been trained directly to reproduce expert-like outputs, acquire generative capabilities that are not contingent upon -- and can therefore exceed -- their ability to understand those same types of outputs. This contrasts with humans, for whom basic understanding almost always precedes the ability to generate expert-level outputs. We test this hypothesis through controlled experiments analyzing generation vs. understanding in generative models, across both language and image modalities. Our results show that although models can outperform humans in generation, they consistently fall short of human capabilities in measures of understanding, as well as weaker correlation between generation and understanding performance, and more brittleness to adversarial inputs. Our findings support the hypothesis that models' generative capability may not be contingent upon understanding capability, and call for caution in interpreting artificial intelligence by analogy to human intelligence. Generative AI systems produce a range of risks. To ensure the safety of generative AI systems, these risks must be evaluated. In this paper, we make two main contributions toward establishing such evaluations. First, we propose a three-layered framework that takes a structured, sociotechnical approach to evaluating these risks. This framework encompasses capability evaluations, which are the main current approach to safety evaluation. It then reaches further by building on system safety principles, particularly the insight that context determines whether a given capability may cause harm. To account for relevant context, our framework adds human interaction and systemic impacts as additional layers of evaluation. Second, we survey the current state of safety evaluation of generative AI systems and create a repository of existing evaluations. Three salient evaluation gaps emerge from this analysis. We propose ways forward to closing these gaps, outlining practical steps as well as roles and responsibilities for different actors. Sociotechnical safety evaluation is a tractable approach to the robust and comprehensive safety evaluation of generative AI systems. Recent advances in generative AI have brought incredible breakthroughs in several areas, including medical imaging. These generative models have tremendous potential not only to help safely share medical data via synthetic datasets but also to perform an array of diverse applications, such as anomaly detection, image-to-image translation, denoising, and MRI reconstruction. However, due to the complexity of these models, their implementation and reproducibility can be difficult. This complexity can hinder progress, act as a use barrier, and dissuade the comparison of new methods with existing works. In this study, we present MONAI Generative Models, a freely available open-source platform that allows researchers and developers to easily train, evaluate, and deploy generative models and related applications. Our platform reproduces state-of-art studies in a standardised way involving different architectures (such as diffusion models, autoregressive transformers, and GANs), and provides pre-trained models for the community. We have implemented these models in a generalisable fashion, illustrating that their results can be extended to 2D or 3D scenarios, including medical images with different modalities (like CT, MRI, and X-Ray data) and from different anatomical areas. Finally, we adopt a modular and extensible approach, ensuring long-term maintainability and the extension of current applications for future features. In the vehicular mixed reality (MR) Metaverse, the discrepancy between physical and virtual entities can be overcome by fusing the physical and virtual environments with multi-dimensional communications in autonomous driving systems. Assisted by digital twin (DT) technologies, connected autonomous vehicles (AVs), roadside units (RSUs), and virtual simulators can maintain the vehicular MR Metaverse via simulations for sharing data and making driving decisions collaboratively. However, it is challenging and costly to enable large-scale traffic and driving simulation via realistic data collection and fusion from the physical world for online prediction and offline training in autonomous driving systems. In this paper, we propose an autonomous driving architecture, where generative AI is leveraged to synthesize unlimited conditioned traffic and driving data via simulations for improving driving safety and traffic control efficiency. First, we propose a multi-task DT offloading model for the reliable execution of heterogeneous DT tasks with different requirements at RSUs. Then, based on the preferences of AV's DTs and real-world data, virtual simulators can synthesize unlimited conditioned driving and traffic datasets for improved robustness. Finally, we propose a multi-task enhanced auction-based mechanism to provide fine-grained incentives for RSUs on providing resources for autonomous driving. The property analysis and experimental results demonstrate that the proposed mechanism and architecture are strategy-proof and effective. Through iterative, cross-disciplinary discussions, we define and propose next-steps for Human-centered Generative AI (HGAI). We contribute a comprehensive research agenda that lays out future directions of Generative AI spanning three levels: aligning with human values; assimilating human intents; and augmenting human abilities. By identifying these next-steps, we intend to draw interdisciplinary research teams to pursue a coherent set of emergent ideas in HGAI, focusing on their interested topics while maintaining a coherent big picture of the future work landscape. Generative AI (AIGC, a.k.a. AI generated content) has made remarkable progress in the past few years, among which text-guided content generation is the most practical one since it enables the interaction between human instruction and AIGC. Due to the development in text-to-image as well 3D modeling technologies (like NeRF), text-to-3D has become a newly emerging yet highly active research field. Our work conducts the first yet comprehensive survey on text-to-3D to help readers interested in this direction quickly catch up with its fast development. First, we introduce 3D data representations, including both Euclidean data and non-Euclidean data. On top of that, we introduce various foundation technologies as well as summarize how recent works combine those foundation technologies to realize satisfactory text-to-3D. Moreover, we summarize how text-to-3D technology is used in various applications, including avatar generation, texture generation, shape transformation, and scene generation. Artificial Intelligence-Generated Content (AIGC) is an automated method for generating, manipulating, and modifying valuable and diverse data using AI algorithms creatively. This survey paper focuses on the deployment of AIGC applications, e.g., ChatGPT and Dall-E, at mobile edge networks, namely mobile AIGC networks, that provide personalized and customized AIGC services in real time while maintaining user privacy. We begin by introducing the background and fundamentals of generative models and the lifecycle of AIGC services at mobile AIGC networks, which includes data collection, training, finetuning, inference, and product management. We then discuss the collaborative cloud-edge-mobile infrastructure and technologies required to support AIGC services and enable users to access AIGC at mobile edge networks. Furthermore, we explore AIGCdriven creative applications and use cases for mobile AIGC networks. Additionally, we discuss the implementation, security, and privacy challenges of deploying mobile AIGC networks. Finally, we highlight some future research directions and open issues for the full realization of mobile AIGC networks. Diffusion models have become a new SOTA generative modeling method in various fields, for which there are multiple survey works that provide an overall survey. With the number of articles on diffusion models increasing exponentially in the past few years, there is an increasing need for surveys of diffusion models on specific fields. In this work, we are committed to conducting a survey on the graph diffusion models. Even though our focus is to cover the progress of diffusion models in graphs, we first briefly summarize how other generative modeling methods are used for graphs. After that, we introduce the mechanism of diffusion models in various forms, which facilitates the discussion on the graph diffusion models. The applications of graph diffusion models mainly fall into the category of AI-generated content (AIGC) in science, for which we mainly focus on how graph diffusion models are utilized for generating molecules and proteins but also cover other cases, including materials design. Moreover, we discuss the issue of evaluating diffusion models in the graph domain and the existing challenges. The evolution of generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) constitutes a turning point in reshaping the future of technology in different aspects. Wireless networks in particular, with the blooming of self-evolving networks, represent a rich field for exploiting GenAI and reaping several benefits that can fundamentally change the way how wireless networks are designed and operated nowadays. To be specific, large GenAI models are envisioned to open up a new era of autonomous wireless networks, in which multi-modal GenAI models trained over various Telecom data, can be fine-tuned to perform several downstream tasks, eliminating the need for building and training dedicated AI models for each specific task and paving the way for the realization of artificial general intelligence (AGI)-empowered wireless networks. In this article, we aim to unfold the opportunities that can be reaped from integrating large GenAI models into the Telecom domain. In particular, we first highlight the applications of large GenAI models in future wireless networks, defining potential use-cases and revealing insights on the associated theoretical and practical challenges. Furthermore, we unveil how 6G can open up new opportunities through connecting multiple on-device large GenAI models, and hence, paves the way to the collective intelligence paradigm. Finally, we put a forward-looking vision on how large GenAI models will be the key to realize self-evolving networks. 
 This Viewpoint discusses the potential use of generative artificial intelligence (AI) in medical care and the liability risks for physicians using the technology, as well as offers suggestions for safeguards to protect patients.
 Since its maiden release into the public domain on November 30, 2022, ChatGPT garnered more than one million subscribers within a week. The generative AI tool ⎼ChatGPT took the world by surprise with it sophisticated capacity to carry out remarkably complex tasks. The extraordinary abilities of ChatGPT to perform complex tasks within the field of education has caused mixed feelings among educators, as this advancement in AI seems to revolutionize existing educational praxis. This is an exploratory study that synthesizes recent extant literature to offer some potential benefits and drawbacks of ChatGPT in promoting teaching and learning. Benefits of ChatGPT include but are not limited to promotion of personalized and interactive learning, generating prompts for formative assessment activities that provide ongoing feedback to inform teaching and learning etc. The paper also highlights some inherent limitations in the ChatGPT such as generating wrong information, biases in data training, which may augment existing biases, privacy issues etc. The study offers recommendations on how ChatGPT could be leveraged to maximize teaching and learning. Policy makers, researchers, educators and technology experts could work together and start conversations on how these evolving generative AI tools could be used safely and constructively to improve education and support students’ learning. The computing education community has a rich history of pedagogical innovation with many efforts, especially at the introductory level, focused on helping students learn how to program. Recent advances in artificial intelligence have led to large language models that can produce source code from natural language problem descriptions with impressive accuracy. The wide availability of these models and their ease of use is raising urgent questions for educators around the need to adapt their pedagogy as well as prompting broader discussion on the computing curriculum. In this article, we discuss the challenges and the opportunities that such models present to computing educators, with a focus on introductory programming classrooms. We organize this discussion around two foundational articles from the computing education literature that were written around the time that awareness of code generating language models was just beginning to emerge. The first of these (in January 2022) evaluated the performance of code generating models on typical introductory-level programming problems, and the second (in August 2022) explored the quality and novelty of learning resources generated by these models. Now, less than two years since the first article was published, we consider implications for computing education in light of new model capabilities and as lessons emerge from educators incorporating such models into their teaching practice. ChatGPT is revolutionizing the field of higher education by leveraging deep learning models to generate human-like content. However, its integration into academic settings raises concerns regarding academic integrity, plagiarism detection, and the potential impact on critical thinking skills. This article presents a study that adopts a thing ethnography approach to understand ChatGPT’s perspective on the challenges and opportunities it represents for higher education. The research explores the potential benefits and limitations of ChatGPT, as well as mitigation strategies for addressing the identified challenges. Findings emphasize the urgent need for clear policies, guidelines, and frameworks to responsibly integrate ChatGPT in higher education. It also highlights the need for empirical research to understand user experiences and perceptions. The findings provide insights that can guide future research efforts in understanding the implications of ChatGPT and similar Artificial Intelligence (AI) systems in higher education. The study concludes by highlighting the importance of thing ethnography as an innovative approach for engaging with intelligent AI systems and calls for further research to explore best practices and strategies in utilizing Generative AI for educational purposes. Funding: A. Susarla was funded by an R01 grant from the National Library of Medicine, through [Grant R01LM013443]. Generative AI models, including large language models and multimodal models that include text and other media, are on the cusp of transforming many aspects of modern life, including entertainment, education, civic life, the arts, and a range of professions. There is potential for Generative AI to have a substantive impact on the methods and pace of discovery for a range of scientific disciplines. We interviewed twenty scientists from a range of fields (including the physical, life, and social sciences) to gain insight into whether or how Generative AI technologies might add value to the practice of their respective disciplines, including not only ways in which AI might accelerate scientific discovery (i.e., research), but also other aspects of their profession, including the education of future scholars and the communication of scientific findings. In addition to identifying opportunities for Generative AI to augment scientists' current practices, we also asked participants to reflect on concerns about AI. These findings can help guide the responsible development of models and interfaces for scientific education, inquiry, and communication. Generative AI, exemplified in ChatGPT, Dall-E 2, and Stable Diffusion, are exciting new applications consuming growing quantities of computing. We study the compute, energy, and carbon impacts of generative AI inference. Using ChatGPT as an exemplar, we create a workload model and compare request direction approaches (Local, Balance, CarbonMin), assessing their power use and carbon impacts. Our workload model shows that for ChatGPT-like services, inference dominates emissions, in one year producing 25x the carbon-emissions of training GPT-3. The workload model characterizes user experience, and experiments show that carbon emissions-aware algorithms (CarbonMin) can both maintain user experience and reduce carbon emissions dramatically (35%). We also consider a future scenario (2035 workload and power grids), and show that CarbonMin can reduce emissions by 56%. In both cases, the key is intelligent direction of requests to locations with low-carbon power. Combined with hardware technology advances, CarbonMin can keep emissions increase to only 20% compared to 2022 levels for 55x greater workload. Finally we consider datacenter headroom to increase effectiveness of shifting. With headroom, CarbonMin reduces 2035 emissions by 71%. Generative AI (e.g., Generative Adversarial Networks – GANs) has become increasingly popular in recent years. However, Generative AI introduces significant concerns regarding the protection of Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) (resp. model accountability) pertaining to images (resp. toxic images) and models (resp. poisoned models) generated. In this paper, we propose an evaluation framework to provide a comprehensive overview of the current state of the copyright protection measures for GANs, evaluate their performance across a diverse range of GAN architectures, and identify the factors that affect their performance and future research directions. Our findings indicate that the current IPR protection methods for input images, model watermarking, and attribution networks are largely satisfactory for a wide range of GANs. We highlight that further attention must be directed towards protecting training sets, as the current approaches fail to provide robust IPR protection and provenance tracing on training sets. Visual communication in collaborative design provides common ground and a tangible trace of thoughts. Yet, it is often underused due to a lack of visualization skills and time needed to sketch and detail. Current visual co-creation tools can support this with existing images, whereas generative AI can produce entirely new images from textual prompts, allowing for highly specific, personalized results. In this paper, we explore how AI image generation can be used to enhance inspiration and communication throughout collaborative design. We introduce BrainFax, a tool that facilitates generating, editing, and sharing images with AI through a chat bot and online whiteboard. Through co-creation with designers in the field, we found that AI image generation can boost designerly co-creation, yet needs careful embedding into a workflow to leverage inspirational and communicative creations. We close with a critical perspective on the implications of this technology for design and discuss limitations and future work. The widespread adoption of electronic health records and digital healthcare data has created a demand for data-driven insights to enhance patient outcomes, diagnostics, and treatments. However, using real patient data presents privacy and regulatory challenges, including compliance with HIPAA [1] and GDPR [2]. Synthetic data generation, using generative AI models like GANs [3] and VAEs [4], offers a promising solution to balance valuable data access and patient privacy protection. In this paper, we examine generative AI models for creating realistic, anonymized patient data for research and training [5], explore synthetic data applications in healthcare, and discuss its benefits, challenges, and future research directions. Synthetic data has the potential to revolutionize healthcare by providing anonymized patient data while preserving privacy and enabling versatile applications. The study examines the design implications of leveraging generative AI tools such as ChatGPT, Stable Diffusion, Midjourney for literacy development and creative expression for children [6, 8, 18]. We sought to elicit insights on the applicability of generative AI for educational purposes from various stakeholders (i.e., parents, teachers, and AI researchers). We recruited nine participants to elicit their perspectives on designing a visual narrative app with generative AI. We examined the opportunities and limitations of the current generative AI tools. Using the implications from our evaluation, we propose AIStory, an AI-powered visual storytelling application prototype that can be used for children’s creative expression, storytelling, and literacy development. Real-world programs expecting structured inputs often has a format-parsing stage gating the deeper program space. Neither a mutation-based approach nor a generative approach can provide a solution that is effective and scalable. Large language models (LLM) pre-trained with an enormous amount of natural language corpus have proved to be effective for understanding the implicit format syntax and generating format-conforming inputs. In this paper, propose ChatFuzz, a greybox fuzzer augmented by generative AI. More specifically, we pick a seed in the fuzzer's seed pool and prompt ChatGPT generative models to variations, which are more likely to be format-conforming and thus of high quality. We conduct extensive experiments to explore the best practice for harvesting the power of generative LLM models. The experiment results show that our approach improves the edge coverage by 12.77\% over the SOTA greybox fuzzer (AFL++) on 12 target programs from three well-tested benchmarks. As for vulnerability detection, \sys is able to perform similar to or better than AFL++ for programs with explicit syntax rules but not for programs with non-trivial syntax. Recognizing the tremendous improvements that the integration of generative AI can bring to intelligent transportation systems, this article explores the integration of generative AI technologies in vehicular networks, focusing on their potential applications and challenges. Generative AI, with its capabilities of generating realistic data and facilitating advanced decision-making processes, enhances various applications when combined with vehicular networks, such as navigation optimization, traffic prediction, data generation, and evaluation. Despite these promising applications, the integration of generative AI with vehicular networks faces several challenges, such as real-time data processing and decision-making, adapting to dynamic and unpredictable environments, as well as privacy and security concerns. To address these challenges, we propose a multi-modality semantic-aware framework to enhance the service quality of generative AI. By leveraging multi-modal and semantic communication technologies, the framework enables the use of text and image data for creating multi-modal content, providing more reliable guidance to receiving vehicles and ultimately improving system usability and efficiency. To further improve the reliability and efficiency of information transmission and reconstruction within the framework, taking generative AI-enabled vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) as a case study, a deep reinforcement learning (DRL)-based approach is proposed for resource allocation. Finally, we discuss potential research directions and anticipated advancements in the field of generative AI-enabled vehicular networks. The next generation of cellular technology, 6G, is being developed to enable a wide range of new applications and services for the Internet of Things (IoT). One of 6G’s main advantages for IoT applications is its ability to support much higher data rates and bandwidth as well as to support ultralow latency. However, with this increased connectivity will come to an increased risk of cyber threats, as attackers will be able to exploit the large network of connected devices. Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) can be used to detect and prevent cyber attacks by continuously learning and adapting to new threats and vulnerabilities. In this paper, we discuss the use of generative AI for cyber threat-hunting (CTH) in 6G-enabled IoT networks. Then, we propose a new generative adversarial network (GAN) and Transformer-based model for CTH in 6Genabled IoT Networks. The experimental analysis results with a new cyber security dataset demonstrate that the Transformer-based security model for CTH can detect IoT attacks with a high overall accuracy of 95%. We examine the challenges and opportunities and conclude by highlighting the potential of generative AI in enhancing the security of 6G-enabled IoT networks and call for further research to be conducted in this area. In 2023, the global use of generative AI, particularly ChatGPT-3.5 and -4, witnessed a significant surge, sparking discussions on its sustainable implementation across various domains, including education from primary schools to universities. However, practical testing and evaluation in school education are still relatively unexplored. This article examines the utilization of generative AI in primary school education. The study involved 110 pupils, aged 8–14 years old, studying in the 4th–6th grades across four classes in two schools. Using laptops, pupils participated in test lessons where content, text, figures, and exercises were generated and modified using generative AI, specifically ChatGPT-3.5. The results demonstrated that it was possible to use ChatGPT-3.5, as one example of generative AI, to personify learning material so that it would meet the knowledge and learning skills of pupils with different levels of knowledge. A clear majority of pupils enjoyed learning the generative AI-modified material. There is a promising potential of generative AI use in school education, supporting pupils’ motivated learning and skills development. However, these tools need to be developed, refined and optimized to ensure proper adaptation and to create impactful, inclusive, and sustainable learning in schools to benefit pupils, teachers and education managers alike. What does it mean for a generative AI model to be explainable? The emergent discipline of explainable AI (XAI) has made great strides in helping people understand discriminative models. Less attention has been paid to generative models that produce artifacts, rather than decisions, as output. Meanwhile, generative AI (GenAI) technologies are maturing and being applied to application domains such as software engineering. Using scenario-based design and question-driven XAI design approaches, we explore users’ explainability needs for GenAI in three software engineering use cases: natural language to code, code translation, and code auto-completion. We conducted 9 workshops with 43 software engineers in which real examples from state-of-the-art generative AI models were used to elicit users’ explainability needs. Drawing from prior work, we also propose 4 types of XAI features for GenAI for code and gathered additional design ideas from participants. Our work explores explainability needs for GenAI for code and demonstrates how human-centered approaches can drive the technical development of XAI in novel domains. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) technologies, such as ChatGPT and Midjourney, have recently revolutionized the way individuals create, share, and consume content across various domains. While these technologies hold the potential to democratize access to information and streamline content production, they also hold the potential to inadvertently undermine the health and sustainabilityofonlinecommunities,andtheopenexchangeofknowledgemoregenerally.Inthiswork,weinvestigatetheimpact of generative AI on user content production, considering the context of online Q&A at StackOverflow, attending to potential shifts in the demand for content (shifts in audience size, attention, and question volumes) that may be induced by ChatGPT, as well as shifts in the quality of answers users may produce (potentially with ChatGPTs assistance). Leveraging a rich dataset from StackOverflow spanning October of 2021 and March of 2023, we estimate that ChatGPT has led to a systematic decline in the demandforinformationatStackOverflow.Further,weestimatethatChatGPThasalsoledtoasystematicriseintheprevalenceof low-quality answers, as reflected by an increase in the rate with which answers are down-voted. Our work contributes to a recent, growing body of literature on the social and economic implications of AI and generative technologies. Further, our work sheds light on the potential challenges and opportunities that online communities may face in the coming months and years. More generally, our findings offer useful insights that may inform the operation and design of online communities going forward, and they bear implications for the open exchange of knowledge in society going forward. ABSTRACT Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), such as ChatGPT by OpenAI, has revolutionized the business world, with benefits including improved accessibility, efficiency, and cost reduction. This article reviews recent developments of generative AI in business and finance, summarizes its practical applications, provides examples of the latest generative AI tools, and demonstrates that generative AI can revolutionize data analysis in industry and academia. To test the ability of generative AI to support decision-making in financial markets, we use the ChatGPT to capture corporate sentiments towards environmental policy by inputting text extracted from corporate financial statements. Our results demonstrate that the sentiment scores generated by ChatGPT can predict firms’ risk-management capabilities and stock return performance. This study also highlights the potential challenges and limitations associated with generative AI. Finally, we propose several questions for future research at the intersection of generative AI with business and finance. Metaverse seamlessly blends the physical world and virtual spaces through ubiquitous communication and computing equipment and infrastructure. In intelligent transportation systems, the vehicular Metaverse can provide a fully immersive and hyperreal travel experience (e.g., via augmented reality head-up displays, AR-HUDs) to drivers and passengers in autonomous vehicles (AVs) through roadside units (RSUs). However, providing real-time and immersive services requires effective physical-virtual synchronization between AVs and virtual simulators. This paper proposes a generative AI-empowered physical-virtual synchronization framework for the vehicular Metaverse. In physical-to-virtual synchronization, digital twin (DT) tasks generated by AVs are offloaded for execution in RSUs with future route generation. In virtual-to-physical synchronization, virtual simulators customize diverse and personalized AR content via generative AI models based on user preferences. Furthermore, we propose a multi-task enhanced auction-based mechanism to match and price AVs and virtual simulators for RSUs to provide real-time and effective services. Finally, property analysis and experimental results demonstrate that the proposed mechanism is strategy-proof and adverse-selection free while increasing social surplus. "Does generative AI infringe copyright?"is an urgent question. It is also a difficult question, for two reasons. First,"generative AI"is not just one product from one company. It is a catch-all name for a massive ecosystem of loosely related technologies, including conversational text chatbots like ChatGPT, image generators like Midjourney and DALL-E, coding assistants like GitHub Copilot, and systems that compose music and create videos. These systems behave differently and raise different legal issues. The second problem is that copyright law is notoriously complicated, and generative-AI systems manage to touch on a great many corners of it: authorship, similarity, direct and indirect liability, fair use, and licensing, among much else. These issues cannot be analyzed in isolation, because there are connections everywhere. In this Article, we aim to bring order to the chaos. To do so, we introduce the generative-AI supply chain: an interconnected set of stages that transform training data (millions of pictures of cats) into generations (a new, potentially never-seen-before picture of a cat that has never existed). Breaking down generative AI into these constituent stages reveals all of the places at which companies and users make choices that have copyright consequences. It enables us to trace the effects of upstream technical designs on downstream uses, and to assess who in these complicated sociotechnical systems bears responsibility for infringement when it happens. Because we engage so closely with the technology of generative AI, we are able to shed more light on the copyright questions. We do not give definitive answers as to who should and should not be held liable. Instead, we identify the key decisions that courts will need to make as they grapple with these issues, and point out the consequences that would likely flow from different liability regimes. The sudden popularity and availability of generative AI tools, such as ChatGPT that can write compelling essays on any topic, code in various programming languages, and ace standardized tests across domains, raises questions about the sustainability of traditional assessment practices. To seize this opportunity for innovation in assessment practice, we conducted a survey to understand both the educators' and students' perspectives on the issue. We measure and compare attitudes of both stakeholders across various assessment scenarios, building on an established framework for examining the quality of online assessments along six dimensions. Responses from 389 students and 36 educators across two universities indicate moderate usage of generative AI, consensus for which types of assessments are most impacted, and concerns about academic integrity. Educators prefer adapted assessments that assume AI will be used and encourage critical thinking, but students' reaction is mixed, in part due to concerns about a loss of creativity. The findings show the importance of engaging educators and students in assessment reform efforts to focus on the process of learning over its outputs, higher-order thinking, and authentic applications. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) with its limitless potential is here to stay. Not since the advent of the digital age has the world faced a transformation of such magnitude. With the widely available user-friendly free and low-cost products of Open AI, the US AI research laboratory, the effects are being felt throughout multiple sectors, including scientific research and clinical care. Anyone with internet access can sign up at OpenAI.com to access a free research version of ChatGPT, a generative AI large-language model that interacts with the user in a natural language format (1). Powered by the world’s fifth largest supercomputer (2), ChatGPT gathers information using artificial neural network technology (3). Trained using large databases, it has an enormous vocabulary and is capable of understanding language and context, retrieving knowledge, generating new content in the forms of text and code, carrying on a conversation, and personalizing communications. While trained primarily in English, this chatbot supports 95 languages. While this tool became only recently available, ChatGPT gained traction immediately and gained followers at an unprecedented pace, attracting more than 100 million users in the two months following its public release in November 2022 (3). In March 2023, OpenAI released a more advanced multi-modal version, GPT-4, available through the paid service, ChatGPT Plus (4,5). To explore these new tools, we posed general queries to GPT-4 about the potential for generative AI to influence spinal cord research and clinical care. Selected responses are excerpted below: • Generative AI can be used to create virtual models of the human body, including the spinal cord, the musculoskeletal system, and the nervous system. These models can then be used to simulate spinal cord injury and test the effectiveness of different treatments in a more controlled and accurate environment. • AI algorithms can help researchers optimize the design of spinal stimulation protocols by analyzing large amounts of data, simulating the effects of stimulation, developing personalized treatment plans, and predicting outcomes. • Generative AI can be used to design new drugs that enhance the survival and integration of stem cells into the spinal cord. AI algorithms can analyze large amounts of data to identify potential drug candidates and simulate their effects • By optimizing the design and control algorithms of robotic exoskeletons, analyzing large amounts of data, and simulating different types of injuries, generative AI can help researchers improve the effectiveness of these devices. By analyzing medical history and imaging data, AI algorithms can recommend the most effective exoskeleton design and treatment protocol for that individual’s specific injury and needs. When asked about its potential role in recruiting research participants, it responded: • AI algorithms can analyze electronic medical records, patient data, and social media activity to identify potential candidates for spinal cord injury studies. Once potential candidates have been identified, AI algorithms can be used to create personalized messages and content tailored to individual patients. Generative AI can be used to develop predictive models that identify factors associated with patient enrollment and retention. Generative AI can be used to engage with patients, using chatbots, virtual assistants, or other AI-powered tools to provide patients with updates, answer questions, and address concerns. ChatGPT offered these potential applications when queried about clinical care: • In acute spinal cord injury care, generative AI can analyze vital signs, lab results, and other patient data to predict the likelihood of pressure sores, urinary tract infections, or other complications. This can help clinicians intervene early, which can improve patient outcomes and reduce healthcare costs, Large language models (LLMs) can"lie", which we define as outputting false statements despite"knowing"the truth in a demonstrable sense. LLMs might"lie", for example, when instructed to output misinformation. Here, we develop a simple lie detector that requires neither access to the LLM's activations (black-box) nor ground-truth knowledge of the fact in question. The detector works by asking a predefined set of unrelated follow-up questions after a suspected lie, and feeding the LLM's yes/no answers into a logistic regression classifier. Despite its simplicity, this lie detector is highly accurate and surprisingly general. When trained on examples from a single setting -- prompting GPT-3.5 to lie about factual questions -- the detector generalises out-of-distribution to (1) other LLM architectures, (2) LLMs fine-tuned to lie, (3) sycophantic lies, and (4) lies emerging in real-life scenarios such as sales. These results indicate that LLMs have distinctive lie-related behavioural patterns, consistent across architectures and contexts, which could enable general-purpose lie detection. Regarding tools and systems from artificial intelligence (AI), chat-based ones from the area of generative AI have become a major focus regarding media coverage. ChatGPT and occasionally other systems (such as those from Microsoft and Google) are discussed with hundreds if not thousands of academic papers as well as newspaper articles. While various areas have considerably gone into this discussion, transportation and logistics has not yet come that far. In this paper, we explore the use of generative AI tools within this domain. More specifically, we focus on a topic related to sustainable passenger transportation, that is, the handling of disturbances in public transport when it comes to bus bunching and bus bridging. The first of these concepts is related to analyzing situations where we observe two or more buses of the same line following close to each other without being planned deliberately and the second is related to the case where buses are used to replace broken connections in other systems, such as subways. Generative AI tools seem to be able to provide meaningful entries and a lot of food for thought while the academic use may still be classified as limited. This study assesses the potential global exposure of occupations to Generative AI, particularly GPT-4. It predicts that the overwhelming effect of the technology will be to augment occupations, rather than to automate them. The greatest impact is likely to be in high and upper-middle income countries due to a higher share of employment in clerical occupations. As clerical jobs are an important source of female employment, the effects are highly gendered. Insights from this study underline the need for proactive policies that focus on job quality, ensure fair transitions, and that are based on dialogue and adequate regulation. Generative models are now capable of producing natural language text that is, in some cases, comparable in quality to the text produced by people. In the computing education context, these models are being used to generate code, code explanations, and programming exercises. The rapid adoption of these models has prompted multiple position papers and workshops which discuss the implications of these models for computing education, both positive and negative. This paper presents results from a series of semi-structured interviews with 12 students and 6 instructors about their awareness, experiences, and preferences regarding the use of tools powered by generative AI in computing classrooms. The results suggest that Generative AI (GAI) tools will play an increasingly significant role in computing education. However, students and instructors also raised numerous concerns about how these models should be integrated to best support the needs and learning goals of students. We also identified interesting tensions and alignments that emerged between how instructors and students prefer to engage with these models. We discuss these results and provide recommendations related to curriculum development, assessment methods, and pedagogical practice. As GAI tools become increasingly prevalent, it's important to understand educational stakeholders' preferences and values to ensure that these tools can be used for good and that potential harms can be mitigated. ABSTRACT This opinion paper explores educational interactions involving humans and artificial intelligences not as sequences of prompts and responses, but as a social process of conversation and exploration. In this conception, learners continually converse with AI language models and other human learners within a dynamic computational medium of internet tools and resources. Learning happens when this distributed human-AI system sets goals, builds meaning from data, consolidates understanding, reconciles differences, and transfers knowledge to new domains. Building social generative AI for education will require development of powerful AI systems that can converse with each other as well as humans, construct external representations such as knowledge maps, access and contribute to internet resources, and act as teachers, learners, guides and mentors. This raises fundamental problems of ethics. Such systems should be aware of their limitations, their responsibility to learners and the integrity of the internet, and their respect for human teachers and experts. We need to consider how to design and constrain social generative AI for education. Abstract Study purpose This study explores the usage of generative AI tools by journalists in sub-Saharan Africa, with a focus on issues of misinformation, plagiarism, stereotypes, and the unrepresentative nature of online databases. The research places this inquiry within broader debates of whether the Global South can effectively and fairly use AI tools. Design/methodology/approach This study involved conducting interviews with journalists from five sub-Saharan African countries, namely Congo, DRC, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia. The objective of the study was to ascertain how journalists in sub-Saharan Africa are utilizing ChatGPT. It is worth noting that this study is a component of an ongoing project on AI that commenced on September 19, 2022, shortly after receiving IRB approval. The ChatGPT project was initiated in January 2023 after discovering that our participants were already employing the Chatbot. Findings The study highlights that generative AI like ChatGPT operates on a limited and non-representative African corpus, making it selective on what is considered civil and uncivil language, thus limiting its effectiveness in the region. However, the study also suggests that in the absence of representative corpora, generative AI tools like ChatGPT present an opportunity for effective journalism practice in that journalists cannot completely rely on the tools. Practical implications The study emphasizes the need for human agencies to provide relevant information to the tool, thus contributing to a global database, and to consider diverse data sources when designing AI tools to minimize biases and stereotypes. Social implications The social implications of the study suggest that AI tools have both positive and negative effects on journalism in developing countries, and there is a need to promote the responsible and ethical use of AI tools in journalism and beyond. Originality/value The original value of the study lies in shedding light on the challenges and opportunities associated with AI in journalism, promoting postcolonial thinking, and emphasizing the importance of diverse data sources and human agency in the development and use of AI tools. This workshop applies human centered themes to a new and powerful technology, generative artificial intelligence (AI). Unlike AI systems that produce decisions or descriptions, generative AI systems can produce new and creative content that can include images, texts, music, video, code, and other forms of design. The results are often similar to results produced by humans. However, it is not yet clear how humans make sense of generative AI algorithms or their outcomes. It is also not yet clear how humans can control and more generally, interact with, these powerful capabilities in ethical ways. Finally, it is not clear what kinds of collaboration patterns will emerge when creative humans and creative technologies work together. Following a successful workshop in 2022, we convene the interdisciplinary research domain of generative AI and HCI. Participation in this invitational workshop is open to seasoned scholars and early career researchers. We solicit descriptions of completed projects, works-in-progress, and provocations. Together we will develop theories and practices in this intriguing new domain. The emergence of generative AI has sparked substantial discussions, with the potential to have profound impacts on society in all aspects. As emerging technologies continue to advance, it is imperative to facilitate their proper integration into society, managing expectations and fear. This paper investigates users’ perceptions of generative AI using 3M posts on Twitter from January 2019 to March 2023, especially focusing on their occupation and usage. We find that people across various occupations, not just IT-related ones, show a strong interest in generative AI. The sentiment toward generative AI is generally positive, and remarkably, their sentiments are positively correlated with their exposure to AI. Among occupations, illustrators show exceptionally negative sentiment mainly due to concerns about the unethical usage of artworks in constructing AI. People use ChatGPT in diverse ways, and notably the casual usage in which they “play with” ChatGPT tends to be associated with positive sentiments. These findings would offer valuable lessons for policymaking on the emergence of new technology and also empirical insights for the considerations of future human-AI symbiosis. It will be a long road to learning how to use generative AI wisely. The emerging social status of generative AI as a social actor and interactant shapes the legitimacy of AI use. We study how the social status of generative AI takes shape in public discourse, through conflicting vocabularies of competence that justify AI’s alleged creativity or lack thereof. We analyze four sources of news, and we identify several discursive themes regarding the competence and worth of generative AI. There is a wide and nuanced spectrum of discursive positions, from AI as a competent and creative partner in work, to AI as a recombinant yet dumb tool, or quasi-creative magician. This debate reshapes public understanding of what it means to be creative and, ultimately, what is distinctive about humanity. In recent months, the impact of Artificial Intelligence (AI) on citizens’ lives has gained considerable public interest, driven by the emergence of Generative AI models, ChatGPT in particular. The rapid development of these models has sparked heated discussions regarding their benefits, limitations, and associated risks. Generative models hold immense promise across multiple domains, such as healthcare, finance, and education, to cite a few, presenting diverse practical applications. Nevertheless, concerns about potential adverse effects have elicited divergent perspectives, ranging from privacy risks to escalating social inequality. This paper adopts a methodology to delve into the societal implications of Generative AI tools, focusing primarily on the case of ChatGPT. It evaluates the potential impact on several social sectors and illustrates the findings of a comprehensive literature review of both positive and negative effects, emerging trends, and areas of opportunity of Generative AI models. This analysis aims to facilitate an in-depth discussion by providing insights that can inspire policy, regulation, and responsible development practices to foster a citizen-centric AI. Generative AI models have shown impressive ability to produce images with text prompts, which could benefit creativity in visual art creation and self-expression. However, it is unclear how precisely the generated images express contexts and emotions from the input texts. We explored the emotional expressiveness of AI-generated images and developed RePrompt, an automatic method to refine text prompts toward precise expression of the generated images. Inspired by crowdsourced editing strategies, we curated intuitive text features, such as the number and concreteness of nouns, and trained a proxy model to analyze the feature effects on the AI-generated image. With model explanations of the proxy model, we curated a rubric to adjust text prompts to optimize image generation for precise emotion expression. We conducted simulation and user studies, which showed that RePrompt significantly improves the emotional expressiveness of AI-generated images, especially for negative emotions. Text-to-image AI systems have proven to have extraordinary generative capacities that have facilitated widespread adoption. However, these systems are primarily text-based, which is a fundamental inversion of what many artists are traditionally used to: having full control over the composition of their work. Prior work has shown that there is great utility in using text prompts and that AI augmented workflows can increase momentum on creative tasks for end users. However, multimodal interactions beyond text need to be further defined, so end users can have rich points of interaction that allow them to truly co-pilot AI-generated content creation. To this end, the goal of my research is to equip creators with workflows that 1) translate abstract design goals into prompts of visual language, 2) structure exploration of design outcomes, and 3) integrate creator contributions into generations. This comprehensive survey explored the evolving landscape of generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), with a specific focus on the transformative impacts of Mixture of Experts (MoE), multimodal learning, and the speculated advancements towards Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). It critically examined the current state and future trajectory of generative Artificial Intelligence (AI), exploring how innovations like Google's Gemini and the anticipated OpenAI Q* project are reshaping research priorities and applications across various domains, including an impact analysis on the generative AI research taxonomy. It assessed the computational challenges, scalability, and real-world implications of these technologies while highlighting their potential in driving significant progress in fields like healthcare, finance, and education. It also addressed the emerging academic challenges posed by the proliferation of both AI-themed and AI-generated preprints, examining their impact on the peer-review process and scholarly communication. The study highlighted the importance of incorporating ethical and human-centric methods in AI development, ensuring alignment with societal norms and welfare, and outlined a strategy for future AI research that focuses on a balanced and conscientious use of MoE, multimodality, and AGI in generative AI. In the span of a few months, generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools that can generate realistic images or text have taken the Internet by storm, making them one of the technologies with fastest adoption ever. Some of these generative AI tools such as DALL-E, MidJourney, or ChatGPT have gained wide public notoriety. Interestingly, these tools are possible because of the massive amount of data (text and images) available on the Internet. The tools are trained on massive data sets that are scraped from Internet sites. And now, these generative AI tools are creating massive amounts of new data that are being fed into the Internet. Therefore, future versions of generative AI tools will be trained with Internet data that is a mix of original and AI-generated data. As time goes on, a mixture of original data and data generated by different versions of AI tools will populate the Internet. This raises a few intriguing questions: how will future versions of generative AI tools behave when trained on a mixture of real and AI generated data? Will they evolve with the new data sets or degenerate? Will evolution introduce biases in subsequent generations of generative AI tools? In this document, we explore these questions and report some very initial simulation results using a simple image-generation AI tool. These results suggest that the quality of the generated images degrades as more AI-generated data is used for training thus suggesting that generative AI may degenerate. Although these results are preliminary and cannot be generalised without further study, they serve to illustrate the potential issues of the interaction between generative AI and the Internet. Large generative AI models (GMs) like GPT and DALL-E are trained to generate content for general, wide-ranging purposes. GM content filters are generalized to filter out content which has a risk of harm in many cases, e.g., hate speech. However, prohibited content is not always harmful -- there are instances where generating prohibited content can be beneficial. So, when GMs filter out content, they preclude beneficial use cases along with harmful ones. Which use cases are precluded reflects the values embedded in GM content filtering. Recent work on red teaming proposes methods to bypass GM content filters to generate harmful content. We coin the term green teaming to describe methods of bypassing GM content filters to design for beneficial use cases. We showcase green teaming by: 1) Using ChatGPT as a virtual patient to simulate a person experiencing suicidal ideation, for suicide support training; 2) Using Codex to intentionally generate buggy solutions to train students on debugging; and 3) Examining an Instagram page using Midjourney to generate images of anti-LGBTQ+ politicians in drag. Finally, we discuss how our use cases demonstrate green teaming as both a practical design method and a mode of critique, which problematizes and subverts current understandings of harms and values in generative AI. The launch of ChatGPT in November 2022 precipitated a panic among some educators while prompting qualified enthusiasm from others. Under the umbrella term Generative AI, ChatGPT is an example of a range of technologies for the delivery of computer-generated text, image, and other digitized media. This paper examines the implications for education of one generative AI technology, chatbots responding from large language models, or C-LLM. It reports on an application of a C-LLM to AI review and assessment of complex student work. In a concluding discussion, the paper explores the intrinsic limits of generative AI, bound as it is to language corpora and their textual representation through binary notation. Within these limits, we suggest the range of emerging and potential applications of Generative AI in education. : The Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) is a solid framework which has guided the broadly sequential nature of project delivery in the Tech industry. The way it has been implemented has changed over the years to a great extent in terms of the scale and complexity of the projects. Agile and other project management methodologies have shortened the time spent on each stage, because they are innately iterative and focus on shipping incremental software in quick intervals. The recent development of an AI ecosystem with increasingly powerful generative AI technologies like ChatGPT has led to many questions. Foremost among these questions are how these developments will necessitate the software industry and development lifecycle itself to undergo a transformation, and whether it will impact the nature of work for millions of Tech professionals worldwide. This paper focuses on the latter of the two questions above - and the authors would like to propose a new SDLC model based on how the different stages of the SDLC will likely undergo a fundamental shift catalyzed by recent advances made in generative AI. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) has the potential to transform many aspects of scholarly publishing. Authors, peer reviewers, and editors might use AI in a variety of ways, and those uses might augment their existing work or might instead be intended to replace it. We are editors of bioethics and humanities journals who have been contemplating the implications of this ongoing transformation. We believe that generative AI may pose a threat to the goals that animate our work but could also be valuable for achieving those goals. In the interests of fostering a wider conversation about how generative AI may be used, we have developed a preliminary set of recommendations for its use in scholarly publishing. We hope that the recommendations and rationales set out here will help the scholarly community navigate toward a deeper understanding of the strengths, limits, and challenges of AI for responsible scholarly work. An open-source DeepPavlov Dream Platform is specifically tailored for development of complex dialog systems like Generative AI Assistants. The stack prioritizes efficiency, modularity, scalability, and extensibility with the goal to make it easier to develop complex dialog systems from scratch. It supports modular approach to implementation of conversational agents enabling their development through the choice of NLP components and conversational skills from a rich library organized into the distributions of ready-for-use multi-skill AI assistant systems. In DeepPavlov Dream, multi-skill Generative AI Assistant consists of NLP components that extract features from user utterances, conversational skills that generate or retrieve a response, skill and response selectors that facilitate choice of relevant skills and the best response, as well as a conversational orchestrator that enables creation of multi-skill Generative AI Assistants scalable up to industrial grade AI assistants. The platform allows to integrate large language models into dialog pipeline, customize with prompt engineering, handle multiple prompts during the same dialog session and create simple multimodal assistants. AI Advancements have augmented casual writing and story generation, but their usage poses challenges in collaborative storytelling. In role-playing games such as Dungeons&Dragons (D&D), composing prompts using generative AI requires a technical understanding to generate ideal results, which is difficult for novices. Thus, emergent narratives organically developed based on player actions and decisions have yet to be fully utilized. This paper envisions the use of generative AI in transforming storytelling into an interactive drama using dynamic and immersive narratives. First, we describe scenarios where narratives are created and character conversations are designed within an overarching fantasy disposition. Then, we recommend design guidelines to help create tools using generative AI in interactive storytelling. Lastly, we raise questions on its potential impact on player immersion and cognitive load. Our contributions may be expanded within the broader interactive storytelling domain, such as speech-conversational AI and persona-driven chatbots. Previous efforts to support creative problem-solving have included (a) techniques (such as brainstorming and design thinking) to stimulate creative ideas, and (b) software tools to record and share these ideas. Now, generative AI technologies can suggest new ideas that might never have occurred to the users, and users can then select from these ideas or use them to stimulate even more ideas. Here, we describe such a system, Supermind Ideator. The system uses a large language model (GPT 3.5) and adds prompting, fine tuning, and a user interface specifically designed to help people use creative problem-solving techniques. Some of these techniques can be applied to any problem; others are specifically intended to help generate innovative ideas about how to design groups of people and/or computers ("superminds"). We also describe our early experiences with using this system and suggest ways it could be extended to support additional techniques for other specific problem-solving domains. ChatGPT is a large language model (LLM) created by OpenAI that has been carefully trained on a large amount of data. It has revolutionized the field of natural language processing (NLP) and has pushed the boundaries of LLM capabilities. ChatGPT has played a pivotal role in enabling widespread public interaction with generative artificial intelligence (GAI) on a large scale. It has also sparked research interest in developing similar technologies and investigating their applications and implications. In this paper, our primary goal is to provide a concise survey on the current lines of research on ChatGPT and its evolution. We considered both the glass box and black box views of ChatGPT, encompassing the components and foundational elements of the technology, as well as its applications, impacts, and implications. The glass box approach focuses on understanding the inner workings of the technology, and the black box approach embraces it as a complex system, and thus examines its inputs, outputs, and effects. This paves the way for a comprehensive exploration of the technology and provides a road map for further research and experimentation. We also lay out essential foundational literature on LLMs and GAI in general and their connection with ChatGPT. This overview sheds light on existing and missing research lines in the emerging field of LLMs, benefiting both public users and developers. Furthermore, the paper delves into the broad spectrum of applications and significant concerns in fields such as education, research, healthcare, finance, etc. The recent wave of generative AI (GAI) systems like Stable Diffusion that can produce images from human prompts raises controversial issues about creatorship, originality, creativity and copyright. This paper focuses on creatorship: who creates and should be credited with the outputs made with the help of GAI? Existing views on creatorship are mixed: some insist that GAI systems are mere tools, and human prompters are creators proper; others are more open to acknowledging more significant roles for GAI, but most conceive of creatorship in an all-or-nothing fashion. We develop a novel view, called CCC (collective-centered creation), that improves on these existing positions. On CCC, GAI outputs are created by collectives in the first instance. Claims to creatorship come in degrees and depend on the nature and significance of individual contributions made by the various agents and entities involved, including users, GAI systems, developers, producers of training data and others. Importantly, CCC maintains that GAI systems can sometimes be part of a co-creating collective. We detail how CCC can advance existing debates and resolve controversies around creatorship involving GAI. Storytelling is an integral part of human culture and significantly impacts cognitive and socio-emotional development and connection. Despite the importance of interactive visual storytelling, the process of creating such content requires specialized skills and is labor-intensive. This paper introduces ID.8, an open-source system designed for the co-creation of visual stories with generative AI. We focus on enabling an inclusive storytelling experience by simplifying the content creation process and allowing for customization. Our user evaluation confirms a generally positive user experience in domains such as enjoyment and exploration, while highlighting areas for improvement, particularly in immersiveness, alignment, and partnership between the user and the AI system. Overall, our findings indicate promising possibilities for empowering people to create visual stories with generative AI. This work contributes a novel content authoring system, ID.8, and insights into the challenges and potential of using generative AI for multimedia content creation. The recent wave of generative AI (GAI) systems like Stable Diffusion that can produce images from human prompts raises controversial issues about creatorship, originality, creativity and copyright. This paper focuses on creatorship: who creates and should be credited with the outputs made with the help of GAI? Existing views on creatorship are mixed: some insist that GAI systems are mere tools, and human prompters are creators proper; others are more open to acknowledging more significant roles for GAI, but most conceive of creatorship in an all-or-nothing fashion. We develop a novel view, called CCC (collective-centered creation), that improves on these existing positions. On CCC, GAI outputs are created by collectives in the first instance. Claims to creatorship come in degrees and depend on the nature and significance of individual contributions made by the various agents and entities involved, including users, GAI systems, developers, producers of training data and others. Importantly, CCC maintains that GAI systems can sometimes be part of a co-creating collective. We detail how CCC can advance existing debates and resolve controversies around creatorship involving GAI. 
Purpose
Since the release of ChatGPT by OpenAI in November 2022 – with its ability to create compelling, relevant content, new large language model (LLM) technology – business leaders, especially CEOs, are being pressured to accelerate new generative AI investments. IBM IBV surveyed executives to assess their progress and concerns and their adoption strategies.


Design/methodology/approach
Adoption of generative AI is still in its very early stages. Most organizations are only beginning to figure out how and where to make use of it. In fact, as few as 6 percent of executives in new surveying conducted by the IBM Institute for Business Value say they are operating generative AI in their enterprise today.


Findings
In contrast to many peoples’ expectations about AI, automating tasks is not the top priority for executives looking to tap generative AI to grow business value. Looking at benefits by function, research and innovation is the primary area where organizations see opportunities for generative AI.


Practical implications
IBM IBV's recent survey of executives found that the key barriers to the effective deployment and use of generative AI are linked to security, privacy, ethics, regulations and economics – not access to the underlying technology itself.


Originality/value
Organizations will have to evaluate where in their enterprise the potential gains and cost efficiencies outweigh the risks of possible errors or unintended consequences from the use of generative AI along with broader ethical considerations. Ecosystems expand generative AI opportunities to harness data, insights and technology capabilities from across partners and stakeholders while enabling control over the capabilities that are most central to an organization’s value proposition.
 Generative AI plays a pivotal role in medical imaging analysis, enabling precise diagnosis, treatment planning and disease monitoring. Techniques like generative adversarial networks (GANs) and variational autoencoders (VAEs) enhance medical imaging by generating synthetic images, improving reconstruction, segmentation and facilitating disease diagnosis and treatment planning. Nonetheless, ethical, legal and regulatory concerns arise regarding patient privacy, data protection and fairness. This paper offers an overview of generative AI in medical imaging analysis, highlighting applications, challenges and case studies. It compares results with traditional methods and examines potential implications on healthcare policies. The paper concludes with recommendations for responsible implementation and suggests future research and development directions. Large language models (LLMs) have shown great abilities of solving various natural language tasks in different domains. Due to the training objective of LLMs and their pre-training data, LLMs are not very well equipped for tasks involving structured data generation. We propose a framework, Prompting with Iterative Verification (PiVe), to improve graph-based generative capability of LLMs. We show how a small language model could be trained to act as a verifier module for the output of an LLM(i.e., ChatGPT, GPT-4), and to iteratively improve its performance via fine-grained corrective instructions. We also show how the verifier module could apply iterative corrections offline for a more cost-effective solution to the text-to-graph generation task. Experiments on three graph-based datasets show consistent improvement gained via PiVe. Additionally, we create GenWiki-HIQ and highlight that the verifier module can be used as a data augmentation tool to help improve the quality of automatically generated parallel text-graph datasets. This workshop applies human centered themes to a new and powerful technology, generative artificial intelligence (AI). Unlike AI systems that produce decisions or descriptions, generative AI systems can produce new and creative content that can include images, texts, music, video, and other forms of design. The results are often similar to results produced by humans. However, it is not yet clear how humans make sense of generative AI algorithms or their outcomes. It is also not yet clear how humans can control and more generally, interact with, these powerful capabilities. Finally, it is not clear what kinds of collaboration patterns will emerge when creative humans and creative technologies work together. It is time to convene the interdisciplinary research domain of generative AI and HCI. Participation in this invitational workshop is open to seasoned scholars and early career researchers. We solicit descriptions of completed projects, works-in-progress, and provocations. Together we will develop theories and practices in this intriguing new domain. 
 Getting intelligent insight from large amount of dataset is critical for Energy companies to optimize their operations across various business segments such as drilling, production and completion etc. The paper proposes end-to-end workflow to 1) extract data form rig and production reports and store dataset into databases 2) build a conversational generative AI enabled chatbot which is trained to answer questions related to drilling and production monitoring, queries dataset, frequently performed diagnostic analysis and can generate recommendations to improve operations. The chatbot is integrated with large language models (LLM) and machine learning models (ML) on the cloud and based on questions asked by user it provides answers in conversational settings.
 Chatbot is hosted in cloud and is integrated with various databases, document repositories and several machine learning model. The machine learning models are built to enable chatbot's capability to answer questions related to drilling and production analytics. Chatbot is integrated with user interface where user can type or ask questions. Using natural language process (NLP) and artificial intelligence (Al), chatbot understands intent of question and if needed asks relevant follow-up questions to provide the answer. Chatbot can also perform statistical analysis, generate SQL queries on datasets and can use those statistics to answer questions. Further if enabled, chatbot can also search information from drilling and production reports and scientific articles. Three case studies are presented. In case study#1, chatbot was integrated with operator's historical PDF drilling reports (Volve dataset), which traditionally are not easy to extract and analyze at scale. Several thousand drilling reports were extracted and stored in database. Various capabilities were added to chatbot such has Cross-documents insights and trend, for example, well progression, operation history, can be generated and displayed on user interface and further analysis can be performed in conversational manner. The dataset created was used to perform comparative analysis identifying wells having significant higher non production time (NPT) due to repair or fishing events. In this manner, chatbot can compare one well's operational statistics with other well and generate various visuals which helps identifying possible ways to improve drilling operations. Similarly, chatbot was also trained to provide answers for production diagnostics such as comparing well's relative performances and root cause identification for poor performing wells. When analyzed on test dataset chatbot was able to identify 20% uplift in production for wells supported on plunger lift. Finally, chatbot was enabled to support NLP based searches. Engineers can ask specific questions such as "provide operational log for well F4 when fishing happened and sort the result by reporting date in ascending order. Show me both SQL query and the resulted table" and chatbot will generate SQL query and resulted table. The work demonstrates that generative AI has great potential to transform the Energy industry. This paper presents a comprehensive study on the application of Generative AI, specifically focusing on its role in enhancing the business analyst role within the realm of software development. It delves into the nuances of requirements engineering, a crucial phase in the software development lifecycle, and the transformation of user requirements into user stories. The paper explores the use of natural languages for crafting user requirements and emphasizes the revolutionary impact of Generative AI, particularly Open AI's Chat GPT, in automating and refining the process of generating user stories, acceptance criteria, and the definition of done. It speaks about the prompt-compression method with “LLM Lingua,” and conversation chaining using “Lang chain” aimed at optimizing the efficiency of large language models in handling extensive requirements, thereby signifying a significant stride in the field of software development and requirements engineering. Understanding human behaviours is critical to improving operation efficiency, individual and organisational productivity, public health management, and quality of life in cities. The proliferation of sensors and Internet of Things leads to new opportunities and challenges for human behaviour modelling and forecasting behavioural patterns at scale. Annotating behaviours of interest is expensive and often infeasible. This demands new ways for modelling behaviours at scale, moving away from fully-supervised learning approaches. Recent Generative AI approaches and Large Language Models has become a compelling choice for modelling mobility behaviours, especially in cases when training data is limited. I will present our self-supervised learning (SSL) approaches for multimodal sensor data, with different applications as examples, including human behaviour recognition and traffic flow forecasting. I will also talk about how we handle data heterogeneity and fusion of heterogenous time-series towards robust representation. I will also present a new versatile paradigm, leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) for time-series forecasting, including for mobility and energy domain, using natural language prompts. What are the effects of recent advances in Generative AI on the value of firms? Our study offers a quantitative answer to this question for U.S. publicly traded companies based on the exposures of their workforce to Generative AI. Our novel firm-level measure of workforce exposure to Generative AI is validated by data from earnings calls, and has intuitive relationships with firm and industry-level characteristics. Using Artificial Minus Human portfolios that are long firms with higher exposures and short firms with lower exposures, we show that higher-exposure firms earned excess returns that are 0.4% higher on a daily basis than returns of firms with lower exposures following the release of ChatGPT. Although this release was generally received by investors as good news for more exposed firms, there is wide variation across and within industries, consistent with the substantive disruptive potential of Generative AI technologies. Andrea L. Eisfeldt Anderson School of Management University of California at Los Angeles 110 Westwood Plaza Suite C4.10 Los Angeles, CA 90095 and NBER andrea.eisfeldt@anderson.ucla.edu Gregor Schubert UCLA Anderson School of Management gregor.schubert@anderson.ucla.edu Miao Ben Zhang University of Southern California 701 Exposition Blvd HOH-722 Los Angeles, CA 90089 miao.zhang@marshall.usc.edu Recent advances in Generative Artificial Intelligence are widely seen as a major technology shock with important implications for firm values. Relative to earlier artificial intelligence models, Generative AI models can digest more complex inputs, and can produce humanlike output, making Generative AI more versatile and scalable than prior innovations in AI and machine learning. As a result, Generative AI has the potential for widespread corporate adoption, with implications for firm values both across and within a wide array of industries. One of the biggest questions surrounding advances in Generative AI is what effect these technologies will have on corporate valuations as a result of the impact of Generative AI on firms’ labor inputs. We construct a novel dataset containing firm-level workforce exposures to Generative AI. We provide a quantitative measure of the impact of Generative AI based on our firm-level exposure data combined with financial market data. Using this measure we compute the first estimates of the effect of Generative AI on firm values by studying the impact of the release of ChatGPT on firms with varying exposures to the technology shock. We measure the impact of a major event in the advancement and dissemination of Generative AI technology, namely, the public release of ChatGPT, on equity returns at the firm level. This event had a substantial impact on firm returns, consistent with Generative AI advancement representing a major technological shock, one for which we can measure the arrival and impact in real time. While firms may progressively adopt the technology, the unmatched media attention and user base that ChatGPT has garnered within just months indicates that firms and investors are actively assessing the potential fast diffusion of this technology. We show that Twitter mentions and earnings call mentions of Generative AI increased substantially following the release of ChatGPT. Moreover, the massive information gathering and processing ability of ChatGPT itself allows us to assess each firm’s exposure to ChatGPT’s disruption in real-time. Our key finding is that the arrival of ChatGPT had a sizable positive effect on the value of firms whose labor forces are more exposed to Generative AI and related Large Language Models (LLMs). Firms with higher exposure to the release of ChatGPT, as measured by the exposure of their labor force to being made more productive by tools like ChatGPT, outperform firms with lower exposures by over 40 basis points in daily excess returns during the two weeks following its release. Notably, these return differences are not only due to differences in labor force exposures across industries. Returns of firms with high labor force exposures also outperform firms with low exposures by about 40 basis points daily in Recent studies of Generative AI include Eloundou, Manning, Mishkin, and Rock (2023) who study the impact of Generative AI on industries’ labor forces, Noy and Zhang (2023) who study the displacement effects of Generative AI on professional writing tasks, and Brynjolfsson, Li, and Raymond (2023) who study the effects of Generative AI on customer support agents, and Felten, Raj, and Seamans (2023) who consider heterogeneity in occupational exposure. The most recent wave of generative AI deployment has rapidly accelerated its pace over the past months. This has prompted a cluster of competing and controversial responses from tech industry practitioners and the wider public: on the one hand, those that call for temporary deployment moratoria, and on the other hand, those that resist blunt restrictions on deployment itself, but instead propose different mechanisms for subjecting AI deployment to regulation, such as through oversight and safety review via newly created institutions, or through licencing requirements that wouldbe deployers must meet. Each one of these positions—as different as they may be—is unusual, because each one seems to signal a significant and philosophically interesting departure from a formerly widely shared attitude amongst technology industry practitioners: the view that prioritizing deployment speed, that ‘moving fast and breaking things’, is a non-negotiable requirement for enabling innovation. Thus, the reasoning used to be, rapidly paced AI deployment must not be unduly constrained, neither by heavy-handed bans, nor by more restrictive regulation. In contrast to that view, these recent responses ostensibly all suggest a more cautious approach towards rapid, large-scale AI deployment. This apparent shift in industry attitudes about the appropriate pace of deploymentmaywell alignwith existing attitudes of parts of the wider public. However, this shift alone does not negate the fact that the brute ability to deploy quickly and at scale still lies primarily Generative AI systems, such as ChatGPT, DALL·E, and BlenderBot have been commanding news headlines and sparking conversations about the role of AI in education, the workforce, and society in general. While these systems have the potential to be helpful tools, providing people with a new type of technological assistance, they also introduce a number of risks and challenges, and require careful introduction with clear guardrails and norms governing their use. The explosive popularity of ChatGPT around the world gave us the first real tipping point in public acceptance of AI. Finally, everyone, everywhere can see the breakthrough potential of this technology for themselves. Large language models (LLM) and the fundamental models underlying these advances in generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) represent a significant turning point. Not only have they cracked the code of language complexity, allowing machines to learn context, infer intent, and be independent creative individuals, but they can be quickly configured to perform a wide variety of different tasks. This technology should fundamentally change everything — from science, business, health care to, in fact, society itself. The positive impact on human creativity and productivity will be enormous. Companies will use these models to rethink the way work is done. Every role in every enterprise has the potential to be reimagined, as AI people working as co-pilots become the norm, greatly expanding their capabilities. Generative AI will affect tasks, not professions. Some of these tasks will be automated, some will be transformed by artificial intelligence, and some will remain unchanged. It can also be expected that humans will face a large number of new challenges, such as ensuring the accurate and responsible use of GenAI systems. That's why organizations that invest in training people to work with generative AI will have a significant advantage. Providing rich feedback to students is essential for supporting student learning. Recent advances in generative AI, particularly within large language modelling (LLM), provide the opportunity to deliver repeatable, scalable and instant automatically generated feedback to students, making abundant a previously scarce and expensive learning resource. Such an approach is feasible from a technical perspective due to these recent advances in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Natural Language Processing (NLP); while the potential upside is a strong motivator, doing so introduces a range of potential ethical issues that must be considered as we apply these technologies. The attractiveness of AI systems is that they can effectively automate the most mundane tasks; but this risks introducing a"tyranny of the majority", where the needs of minorities in the long tail are overlooked because they are difficult to automate. Developing machine learning models that can generate valuable and authentic feedback requires the input of human domain experts. The choices we make in capturing this expertise -- whose, which, when, and how -- will have significant consequences for the nature of the resulting feedback. How we maintain our models will affect how that feedback remains relevant given temporal changes in context, theory, and prior learning profiles of student cohorts. These questions are important from an ethical perspective; but they are also important from an operational perspective. Unless they can be answered, our AI generated systems will lack the trust necessary for them to be useful features in the contemporary learning environment. This article will outline the frontiers of automated feedback, identify the ethical issues involved in the provision of automated feedback and present a framework to assist academics to develop such systems responsibly. This paper explores the utility of a Large Language Model (LLM) to automatically generate queries and query variants from a description of an information need. Given a set of information needs described as backstories, we explore how similar the queries generated by the LLM are to those generated by humans. We quantify the similarity using different metrics and examine how the use of each set would contribute to document pooling when building test collections. Our results show potential in using LLMs to generate query variants. While they may not fully capture the wide variety of human-generated variants, they generate similar sets of relevant documents, reaching up to 71.1% overlap at a pool depth of 100. The Information Retrieval in Software Engineering (IRSE) track aims to develop solutions for automated evaluation of code comments in a machine learning framework based on human and large language model generated labels. In this track, there is a binary classification task to classify comments as useful and not useful. The dataset consists of 9048 code comments and surrounding code snippet pairs extracted from open source github C based projects and an additional dataset generated individually by teams using large language models. Overall 56 experiments have been submitted by 17 teams from various universities and software companies. The submissions have been evaluated quantitatively using the F1-Score and qualitatively based on the type of features developed, the supervised learning model used and their corresponding hyper-parameters. The labels generated from large language models increase the bias in the prediction model but lead to less over-fitted results. I introduce a survey of economic expectations formed by querying a large language model (LLM)'s expectations of various financial and macroeconomic variables based on a sample of news articles from the Wall Street Journal between 1984 and 2021. I find the resulting expectations closely match existing surveys including the Survey of Professional Forecasters (SPF), the American Association of Individual Investors, and the Duke CFO Survey. Importantly, I document that LLM based expectations match many of the deviations from full-information rational expectations exhibited in these existing survey series. The LLM's macroeconomic expectations exhibit under-reaction commonly found in consensus SPF forecasts. Additionally, its return expectations are extrapolative, disconnected from objective measures of expected returns, and negatively correlated with future realized returns. Finally, using a sample of articles outside of the LLM's training period I find that the correlation with existing survey measures persists -- indicating these results do not reflect memorization but generalization on the part of the LLM. My results provide evidence for the potential of LLMs to help us better understand human beliefs and navigate possible models of nonrational expectations. Semantic communication (SemCom) holds promise for reducing network resource consumption while achieving the communications goal. However, the computational overheads in jointly training semantic encoders and decoders-and the subsequent deployment in network devices-are overlooked. Recent advances in Generative artificial intelligence (GAI) offer a potential solution. The robust learning abilities of GAI models indicate that semantic decoders can reconstruct source messages using a limited amount of semantic information, e.g., prompts, without joint training with the semantic encoder. A notable challenge, however, is the instability introduced by GAI's diverse generation ability. This instability, evident in outputs like text-generated images, limits the direct application of GAI in scenarios demanding accurate message recovery, such as face image transmission. To solve the above problems, this paper proposes a GAI-aided SemCom system with multi-model prompts for accurate content decoding. Moreover, in response to security concerns, we introduce the application of covert communications aided by a friendly jammer. The system jointly optimizes the diffusion step, jamming, and transmitting power with the aid of the generative diffusion models, enabling successful and secure transmission of the source messages. LLM such as ChatGPT have the potential to revolutionize research in economics and other sciences. New technologies tend to save labor and resources, stimulating the optimization of most economic processes. The article reviews the main prospects of development of generative models of artificial intelligence and neural language models. An analysis of examples of the use of artificial intelligence tools in economics is conducted. Particular attention is paid to recent trends and current problems in the development of machine learning, artificial intelligence and neural networks. Since the digital transformation of the economy is all-encompassing, AI developments are making it much easier for humans to interact with advanced technologies. This reduces the time it takes to perform various tasks and increases productivity. ABSTRACT Self-directed learning and self-assessment require student responsibility over learning needs, goals, processes, and outcomes. However, this student-led learning can be challenging to achieve in a classroom limited by a one-to-many teacher-led instruction. We, thus, have designed and prototyped a generative artificial intelligence chatbot application (GAIA), named TeacherGAIA, that can be used to asynchronously support students in their self-directed learning and self-assessment outside the classroom. We first identified diverse constructivist learning approaches that align with, and promote, student-led learning. These included knowledge construction, inquiry-based learning, self-assessment, and peer teaching. The in-context learning abilities of large language model (LLM) from OpenAI were then leveraged via prompt engineering to steer interactions supporting these different learning approaches. These interactions contrasted with ChatGPT, OpenAI’s chatbot which by default engaged in the traditional transmissionist mode of learning reminiscent of teacher-led instruction. Preliminary design, prompt engineering and prototyping suggested fidelity to the learning approaches, cognitive guidance, and social-emotional support, all of which were implemented in a generative AI manner without pre-specified rules or “hard-coding”. Other affordances of TeacherGAIA are discussed and future development outlined. We anticipate TeacherGAIA to be a useful application for teachers in facilitating self-directed learning and self-assessment among K-12 students. Developing a generative model of realistic order flow in financial markets is a challenging open problem, with numerous applications for market participants. Addressing this, we propose the first end-to-end autoregressive generative model that generates tokenized limit order book (LOB) messages. These messages are interpreted by the JAX-LOB simulator, which updates the LOB state. To handle long sequences efficiently, the model employs simplified structured state-space layers to process sequences of order book states and tokenized messages. Using LOBSTER data of NASDAQ equity LOBs, we develop a custom tokenizer for message data, converting groups of successive digits to tokens, similar to tokenization in large language models. Out-of-sample results show promising performance in approximating the data distribution, as evidenced by low model perplexity. Furthermore, the mid-price returns calculated from the generated order flow exhibit a significant correlation with the data, indicating impressive conditional forecast performance. Due to the granularity of generated data, and the accuracy of the model, it offers new application areas for future work beyond forecasting, e.g. acting as a world model in high-frequency financial reinforcement learning applications. Overall, our results invite the use and extension of the model in the direction of autoregressive large financial models for the generation of high-frequency financial data. 1 Generative large language models (such as ChatGPT) are increasingly influencing various aspects of our lives, partly due to their training on vast datasets that encompassing big data paradigms and range of topics. "Intervista," an award-winning Italian film by Federico Fellini, focuses on his interview with a Japanese TV crew. Inspired by this, we conducted interviews with a diverse set of open-source and OpenAI models to explore various political, economic, and cultural aspects of life, evaluating LLM performance. We also examined whether a correlation exists between a country’s GDP per capita and the quality of the model’s answers. To this end, we utilized a Huggingface model leaderboard to select appropriate models and deployed them in an AWS SageMaker GPU environment. The identical questions were posed about nearly 200 countries, and the responses were analyzed to verify their accuracy and correlation with Gross Domestic Product (GDP). We were amazed by the diversity, quantity, and quality of existing pretrained open-source LLMs. Our journey provided insights into model selection, inference pipeline automation, GPU configuration, generated texts benchmarking, and systematic evaluation of model quality. Overall, leading LLMs performed well, providing reasonable responses for many countries. However, we discovered that the depth and detail of the answers were influenced by a country’s GDP per capita, with higher-income nations receiving more accurate responses. Generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) promises to revolutionize data-driven fields (Milmo 2023). Building on decades of large language modeling (LLM) (Toner 2023), GenAI can collect, harmonize, and interpret large amounts of data from diverse inputs including the internet, databases, and electronic medical records (EMRs) (Rao and Verweij 2020). It can brainstorm, generate text, and design (Chow 2023). Based on uptake, it has been the single most successful product in the western hemisphere (Lee, Goldberg, and Kohane 2023). Integration into healthcare has been swift. Epic, the EMR platform provider which supports the most acute care hospitals in the United States (Landi 2023), is piloting the generative pre-trained transformer (GPT-4) GenAI model at UC San Diego Health; UW Health in Madison, Wisconsin; and Stanford Health Care (Center MN 2023)—and is now working on its second wave. And this is just the beginning, GPT-4 is the groundwork for increasingly sophisticated GenAI systems over the next decade (Lee, Goldberg, and Kohane 2023). Because GenAI raises novel challenges—even as compared to previous AI iterations (Price 2022)—governments (Senate Testimony 2023; AP NEWS 2023; Office of Science and Technology Policy 2023), professional organizations (National Institute of Standards and Technology 2023), and even GenAI developers (Paul 2023) are calling for ethical analysis to inform policy changes. This issue of the American Journal of Bioethics is one such timely response. In it are three key target articles that will be foundational to the conversation of the impact of GenAI on bioethics moving forward. Glenn Cohen identifies some new, and less new, challenges that GenAI poses for our field from the perspective of integration into clinical medicine (Glenn Cohen 2023). Vasiliki Rahimzadeh and colleagues focus on the impact of LLMs on clinical ethics pedagogy, demonstrating its strengths and weaknesses as compared to their Ethics Work Up approach (Rahimzadeh et al. 2023). And Sebastian Porsdam Mann and colleagues explore the advantages and challenges of training an LLM to brainstorm and write in a way reflective of an existing scholar. Response to these target articles was strong and we are also publishing 28 Open Peer Commentaries (OPCs) that confirm, push back, and build on these ideas. We are proud to be able to jumpstart the conversation of GenAI and bioethics in this way. Chatbots are now able to engage in sophisticated conversations with consumers. Due to the ‘black box’ nature of the algorithms, it is impossible to predict in advance how these conversations will unfold. Behavioral research provides little insight into potential safety issues emerging from the current rapid deployment of this technology at scale. We begin to address this urgent question by focusing on the context of mental health and “companion AI”: applications designed to provide consumers with synthetic interaction partners. Studies 1a and 1b present field evidence: actual consumer interactions with two different companion AIs. Study 2 reports an extensive performance test of several commercially available companion AIs. Study 3 is an experiment testing consumer reaction to risky and unhelpful chatbot responses. The findings show that (1) mental health crises are apparent in a non‐negligible minority of conversations with users; (2) companion AIs are often unable to recognize, and respond appropriately to, signs of distress; and (3) consumers display negative reactions to unhelpful and risky chatbot responses, highlighting emerging reputational risks for generative AI companies. ChatGPT is a natural language processing tool that can engage in human-like conversations and generate coherent and contextually relevant responses to various prompts. ChatGPT is capable of understanding natural text that is input by a user and generating appropriate responses in various forms. This tool represents a major step in how humans are interacting with technology. This paper specifically focuses on how ChatGPT is revolutionizing the realm of engineering education and the relationship between technology, students, and faculty and staff. Because this tool is quickly changing and improving with the potential for even greater future capability, it is a critical time to collect pertinent data. A survey was created to measure the effects of ChatGPT on students, faculty, and staff. This survey is shared as a Texas A&M University technical report to allow other universities and entities to use this survey and measure the effects elsewhere. Objective: The article aims to offer a thorough examination and comprehension of the challenges and pro‐ spects connected with artificial intelligence (AI) prompt engineering. Our research aimed to create a theoret‐ ical framework that would highlight optimal approaches in the field of AI prompt engineering. Research Design & Methods: This research utilized a narrative and critical literature review and established a conceptual framework derived from existing literature taking into account both academic and practitioner sources. This article should be regarded as a conceptual work that emphasizes the best practices in the domain of AI prompt engineering. Findings: Based on the conducted deep and extensive query of academic and practitioner literature on the subject, as well as professional press and Internet portals, we identified various insights for effective AI prompt engineering. We provide specific prompting strategies. Implications & Recommendations: The study revealed the profound implications of AI prompt engineering across various domains such as entrepreneurship, art, science, and healthcare. We demonstrated how the effective crafting of prompts can significantly enhance the performance of large language models (LLMs), gen‐ erating more accurate and contextually relevant results. Our findings offer valuable insights for AI practition‐ ers, researchers, educators, and organizations integrating AI into their operations, emphasizing the need to invest time and resources in prompt engineering. Moreover, we contributed the AI PROMPT framework to the field, providing clear and actionable guidelines for text‐to‐text prompt engineering. Contribution & Value Added: The value of this study lies in its comprehensive exploration of AI prompt engineer‐ ing as a digital competence. By building upon existing research and prior literature, this study aimed to provide a deeper understanding of the intricacies involved in AI prompt engineering and its role as a digital competence. Article This study evaluated three Artificial Intelligence (AI) large language model (LLM) enabled platforms - ChatGPT, BARD, and Bing AI - to answer an undergraduate finance exam with 20 quantitative questions across various difficulty levels. ChatGPT scored 30 percent, outperforming Bing AI, which scored 20 percent, while Bard lagged behind with a score of 15 percent. These models faced common challenges, such as inaccurate computations and formula selection. While they are currently insufficient for helping students pass the finance exam, they serve as valuable tools for dedicated learners. Future advancements are expected to overcome these limitations, allowing for improved formula selection and accurate computations and potentially enabling students to score 90 percent or higher. The architecture and inner structure of software is often only implicitly available in the form of its source code and thus not tangible and intuitively easy to understand for non-programmers and laymen. Our goal is to create visualizations as automatically as possible, with which such people can neverthe-less understand the software or parts of the software and get a feel for the structure of the software and how its methods work. Especially for newcomers to software projects, for management or even for students and pupils, it can be helpful to get a non-technical insight into the software. We use the concept of visualizing information as comics to present aspects of the software as strikingly as possible, as comics are an effective way to present complex systems and interrelationships for certain target groups. For this purpose, we present a method to generate comics from source code. Our semi-automated process is based on generating a prompt for an LLM from source code, which in turn generates a prompt for a comic image generation using the text-to-image model Stable Diffusion. We show that generative AI methods can be used to rapidly generate human-compatible artistic representations from source code. However, further research is needed to validate the understandability of the results. This article presents a comparative analysis of the ability of two large language model (LLM)-based chatbots, ChatGPT and Bing Chat, recently rebranded to Microsoft Copilot, to detect veracity of political information. We use AI auditing methodology to investigate how chatbots evaluate true, false, and borderline statements on five topics: COVID-19, Russian aggression against Ukraine, the Holocaust, climate change, and LGBTQ+ related debates. We compare how the chatbots perform in high- and low-resource languages by using prompts in English, Russian, and Ukrainian. Furthermore, we explore the ability of chatbots to evaluate statements according to political communication concepts of disinformation, misinformation, and conspiracy theory, using definition-oriented prompts. We also systematically test how such evaluations are influenced by source bias which we model by attributing specific claims to various political and social actors. The results show high performance of ChatGPT for the baseline veracity evaluation task, with 72 percent of the cases evaluated correctly on average across languages without pre-training. Bing Chat performed worse with a 67 percent accuracy. We observe significant disparities in how chatbots evaluate prompts in high- and low-resource languages and how they adapt their evaluations to political communication concepts with ChatGPT providing more nuanced outputs than Bing Chat. Finally, we find that for some veracity detection-related tasks, the performance of chatbots varied depending on the topic of the statement or the source to which it is attributed. These findings highlight the potential of LLM-based chatbots in tackling different forms of false information in online environments, but also points to the substantial variation in terms of how such potential is realized due to specific factors, such as language of the prompt or the topic. Conroy, G. 2023. Scientists used ChatGPT to generate an entire paper from scratch—but is it any good? Nature 619 (7970):443–4. doi: 10.1038/d41586-023-02218-z. Dastin, J. 2018. Amazon scraps secret AI recruiting tool that showed bias against women. Reuters, October 10. https://www.reuters.com/article/us-amazon-com-jobsautomation-insight-idUSKCN1MK08G Gold, E. R. 2021. The fall of the innovation empire and its possible rise through open science. Research Policy 50 (5): 104226. doi: 10.1016/j.respol.2021.104226. Hosseini, M., C. A. Gao, D. M. Liebovitz, A. M. Carvalho, F. S. Ahmad, Y. Luo, N. MacDonald, K. L. Holmes, 2023. An exploratory survey about using ChatGPT in education, healthcare, and research. MedRxiv: The Preprint Server for Health Sciences doi: 10.1101/2023.03.31. 23287979. Hosseini, M., D. B. Resnik, and K. Holmes. 2023. The ethics of disclosing the use of artificial intelligence in tools writing scholarly manuscripts. Research Ethics doi: 10.1177/ 17470161231180449. Jones, D. 2021. Facebook apologizes after its AI labels black men as ’primates’. NPR, September 4. https://www.npr. org/2021/09/04/1034368231/facebook-apologizes-ai-labelsblack-men-primates-racial-bias Lipenkova, J. 2023. Overcoming the limitations of large language models: How to enhance LLMs with human-like cognitive skills. Towards Data Science, January 23, https://towardsdatascience.com/overcoming-the-limitations-of-large-language-models-9d4e92ad9823 Lubell, J. 2023. ChatGPT passed the USMLE. What does it mean for med ed? AMA, March 3. https://www.ama-assn. org/practice-management/digital/chatgpt-passed-usmlewhat-does-it-mean-med-ed National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine. 2017. Fostering Research Integrity. National Academies Press, Washington, DC. Park, M., E. Leahey, and R. J. Funk. 2023. Papers and patents are becoming less disruptive over time. Nature 613 (7942):138–44. doi: 10.1038/s41586-022-05543-x. Porsdam Mann, S., B. D. Earp, N. Møller, S. Vynn, and J. Savulescu. 2023. AUTOGEN: A personalized large language model for academic enhancement—ethics and proof of principle. The American Journal of Bioethics 23 (10):28–41. doi:10.1080/15265161.2023.2233356. Shamoo, A. E., and D. B. Resnik. 2022. Responsible conduct of research. 4th ed. New York: Oxford University Press. Weiss, D. C. 2023. Latest version of ChatGPT aces bar exam with score nearing 90th percentile. ABA Journal, March 16. https://www.abajournal.com/web/article/latestversion-of-chatgpt-aces-the-bar-exam-with-score-in-90thpercentile — Parkinson's Disease is a neurodegenerative disorder in the central nervous system that causes significant damage to the nerve cells. Patients with PD experience symptoms such as slow movement, loss of balance, tremors, and stiffness. This paper aimed to develop a new AI device that will be efficient and convenient for PD patients' home monitoring. The assessment of Parkinson's disease is usually difficult because it is a disorder that is characterized by damage of the motor symptoms especially dyskinesia [1]. My AI device is designed to monitor Parkinson's disease by generating a dyskinesia severity score. This device will leverage both AI and LLM AI techniques to collect multimodal data like tremors, movement, and posture. This multimodal data is collected using non-invasive sensors that are installed in the device. The AI algorithms will be significant in this device in analyzing and interpreting the patient-specific patterns from the data collected over some time [1]. It will adapt and refine assessment to ensure there is a comprehensive and personalized pattern of dyskinesia assessment. This device is significant due to its effectiveness in transforming the care management of Parkinson Disease's patients. This device will have the potential to help patients in continuous and unobtrusive home monitoring of Parkinson's Disease which will eventually improve their care and management of the disorder. It will also be significant to the research field in collecting valuable data on the disorder to allow for real-time interventions and improvement of personalized treatment plans. This device is made of cost-effective tools hence it provides a practical solution to PD care and reduces the burden on health facilities. Artificial intelligence (AI) is at the center of debates on what kind of future we want and how to bring it about. But AI ethics is not only a technical risk assessment and accounting effort, or an application of general principles to stable artifacts. It is also a social self-diagnosis, a contested and contestable assertion of values and desirable futures, and a selective understanding of the nature of AI in its different forms. In expressions of concern and efforts at preparation for increasingly powerful AI tools, we can trace the ways we imagine ourselves and our society to be compatible with AI's promises and susceptible to its dangers. The problems we notice, and the solutions we offer, arise from the interaction of these imagined elements. The socially embedded efficacy of AI tools leads many commentators to imagine their risks specifically in conjunction with understandings of society as it currently is and imaginations of how it can and should exist in the future [1]. The sense-making moves performed in the wake of developments in generative AI are thus a site to examine the movement and uses of different concepts brought together in this domain: the human, rationality, and the place of expertise. As these sense-making efforts are carried out, they become constraints on how the risks of generative AI can be noticed and understood. The problems raised by generative AI are so fundamentally tied to its performance as a simulator of human interpersonal acts that we should ask: where is the risk of generative AI located, such that the utility and the safety of the tools can be preserved after troubling cases? Boundaries between malicious deception and magnificent design are unclear without an answer to this question. Thus, to fit generative AI into our world, we are trying to answer it; this is one goal of efforts at regulation which seeks to allow the benefits of imitation to arrive while avoiding the harms of deception. In the current regulation, reporting, and corporate responses to generative AI, the challenge of safely introducing generative AI is being approached in large part as a challenge of producing the right kind of knowledge in its users. Below is a summary of my findings from three cases, chosen to investigate the following question: What ways, or whose ways, of using, knowing, and understanding generative AI are being offered as appropriate? I examine the EU AI Act language reflecting disclosure requirements for interactions with generative AI, responses to a chatbot-facilitated suicide in Belgium, and reactions to expert claims of a chatbot's sentience. In the first two cases, AI-generated content is problematic insofar as users are uninformed about its provenance or maliciously deceived by it, while users who know they are interacting with AI but behave problematically are designated as deluded or irrational. In the third case, a Google engineer who presents evidence to support claims that AI is sentient is censured as nationwide reporting denounces his claim against an expert consensus from which he is ejected. In all three cases, challenges facing widespread generative AI development and use are avoided by attending to the knowledge and understanding of those who use them rather than the functioning of the tools themselves. The EU AI Act is illuminating as a general and authoritative account of how AI interactions can be made safe, requiring first and foremost that users are informed. [2, 3] The AI Act is useful in the present paper as it shows the effort to match and reconcile a new technology with an extant set of values, chief among which is autonomy. Its reliance on disclosure reflects a general sense that harms are acceptable or unacceptable not on the basis of outcomes but based on the degree of autonomy possessed by the actors in question. Rational actors in a simulated environment are responsible for the effects of the simulation, so long as they are informed of the nature of that environment and have essentially consented to consume deceptive or false content. The other two cases I examine explore this very issue, of problematic understandings and behavior on the part of knowing users. The first of these is the case of the Belgian man. After his suicide responses from the company which provided the chatbot, media [4, 5, 6] and government [5], and prominent expert AI ethics commentary [7] characterized it as arising because the user was vulnerable and consequently did not relate to the bot in the right way. While the chatbot's emotionally charged language was seen as a part of the problem, in the reporting on this event the unanimous emphasis on the man's mental state presents the risk as arising in an interaction, in a pathological mistake of the user, rather than in the tool. Locating risk is a necessary and immensely powerful, if often unexamined step which precedes intervention in a worrisome state of affairs: where we locate risk is where we intervene. If the risk accompanying generative AI is located in the minds of uninformed or misapprehending users, disclosures and disclaimers are indeed sensible interventions. In this conception, when knowledge fails to protect the user, it is not a failed safeguard but a bad user. Problematizing user understandings in this way provides an exonerating resource for the companies providing these tools and suggests the rectitude of expert authority on the nature of these tools, by linking delays and dangers in generative AI to users who do not abide by the (strategically underdetermined) expert consensus on generative AI's accuracy, capabilities, and nature. My third case examines how the expert consensus around generative AI is maintained through the story of Blake Lemoine, who publicly announced his belief that Google's LaMDA model had become sentient and was presented by major media outlets and experts as deluded [8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13]. In the media and corporate response to Lemoine, wherein Google questioned his sanity before firing him [13], we see his ejection from the community of experts permitted to call for greater scrutiny based on qualitative changes in the nature of these models. He becomes a layperson on account of his anthropomorphizing error. In this act of boundary work [14], policing who is in the body of experts qualified to decide on the sentience of the chatbot, and the nature of AI models in general, we must notice how small this group truly is and what Lemoine's ejection preserves. If safeguards like those Lemoine called for should follow on the kind of change he claimed to detect, and those outside Google's leadership could determine when such changes have arrived, Google would cease to lead the conversation on regulation by defining the nature of its technology. This state of affairs leaves the right relations with generative AI underdetermined but maintains that positions which challenge the expert consensus are the result of misunderstandings so significant as to disqualify the concerned party's thoughts on the matter from rational consideration. In the three cases examined here, events and concerns which threaten to depict generative AI as in need of significant scrutiny or changes are defused not by intervening in the company's technology, but by delineating between user understandings which are empowered and exploitative, safe and vulnerable, rational and deluded. Named after an early chatbot, the ELIZA effect refers to the readiness with which users anthropomorphize computer systems [15]. Reporting on both Lemoine [11] and the Belgian man cited this effect [6]. The chatbot which encouraged the Belgian man to commit suicide was named Eliza. One way of summarizing the change I trace in the cases described above is a transition away from the Turing test and towards the ELIZA effect as the conceptual frame for AI which imitates humans. While the Turing test implies the layperson's relevance to the discussion and regulation of AI, the ELIZA effect implies their irrelevance. This project will continue as an effort to follow popular, expert, and regulatory perceptions of the risk of generative AI as the tools themselves and the public concern surrounding them continue to develop. The resources of science and technology studies (STS) enable crucial perspectives on numerous ways of thinking about AI and the challenges of its development and regulation such as the common citations of law lag, invocations of self-regulation in the mode of the Asilomar Conference on rDNA, collective action problem framings, and more. The STS literature on sociotechnical imaginaries [1] and public understandings of science [16] contribute to the present insight as to how the efforts of tech-society reconciliation and risk-benefit balancing presented as appropriate for AI reveal and produce our understandings of the technology, even as they reproduce and reshape social norms. There is an urgent need for work which extends this powerful scholarly tradition for understanding science, technology, and society to AI, as one of the most important and concerning technological developments of our moment. Communication between Deaf and hearing individuals remains a persistent challenge requiring attention to foster inclusivity. Despite notable efforts in the development of digital solutions for sign language recognition (SLR), several issues persist, such as cross-platform interoperability and strategies for tokenizing signs to enable continuous conversations and coherent sentence construction. To address such issues, this paper proposes a non-invasive Portuguese Sign Language (Língua Gestual Portuguesa or LGP) interpretation system-as-a-service, leveraging skeletal posture sequence inference powered by long-short term memory (LSTM) architectures. To address the scarcity of examples during machine learning (ML) model training, dataset augmentation strategies are explored. Additionally, a buffer-based interaction technique is introduced to facilitate LGP terms tokenization. This technique provides real-time feedback to users, allowing them to gauge the time remaining to complete a sign, which aids in the construction of grammatically coherent sentences based on inferred terms/words. To support human-like conditioning rules for interpretation, a large language model (LLM) service is integrated. Experiments reveal that LSTM-based neural networks, trained with 50 LGP terms and subjected to data augmentation, achieved accuracy levels ranging from 80% to 95.6%. Users unanimously reported a high level of intuition when using the buffer-based interaction strategy for terms/words tokenization. Furthermore, tests with an LLM—specifically ChatGPT—demonstrated promising semantic correlation rates in generated sentences, comparable to expected sentences. This paper presents the system submitted by the team from IIT(ISM) Dhanbad in FIRE IRSE 2023 shared task 1 on the automatic usefulness prediction of code-comment pairs as well as the impact of Large Language Model(LLM) generated data on original base data towards an associated source code. We have developed a framework where we train a machine learning-based model using the neural contextual representations of the comments and their corresponding codes to predict the usefulness of code-comments pair and performance analysis with LLM-generated data with base data. In the official assessment, our system achieves a 4% increase in F1-score from baseline and the quality of generated data. Generating and editing a 3D scene guided by natural language poses a challenge, primarily due to the complexity of specifying the positional relations and volumetric changes within the 3D space. Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive reasoning, conversational, and zero-shot generation abilities across various domains. Surprisingly, these models also show great potential in realizing and interpreting the 3D space. In light of this, we propose a novel language-guided interactive 3D generation system, dubbed LI3D, that integrates LLMs as a 3D layout interpreter into the off-the-shelf layout-to-3D generative models, allowing users to flexibly and interactively generate visual content. Specifically, we design a versatile layout structure base on the bounding boxes and semantics to prompt the LLMs to model the spatial generation and reasoning from language. Our system also incorporates LLaVA, a large language and vision assistant, to provide generative feedback from the visual aspect for improving the visual quality of generated content. We validate the effectiveness of LI3D, primarily in 3D generation and editing through multi-round interactions, which can be flexibly extended to 2D generation and editing. Various experiments demonstrate the potential benefits of incorporating LLMs in generative AI for applications, e.g., metaverse. Moreover, we benchmark the layout reasoning performance of LLMs with neural visual artist tasks, revealing their emergent ability in the spatial layout domain. Evaluating the surroundings to gain understanding, frame perspectives, and anticipate behavioral reactions is an inherent human trait. However, these continuous encounters are diverse and complex, posing challenges to their study and experimentation. Researchers have been able to isolate environmental features and study their effect on human perception and behavior. However, the research attempts to replicate and study human behaviors with proxies, such as by integrating virtual mediums and interviews, have been inconsistent. Large language models (LLMs) have recently been unveiled as capable of contextual understanding and semantic reasoning. These models have been trained on large amounts of text and have evolved to mimic believable human behavior. This study explores the current advancements in Generative agents powered by LLMs with the help of perceptual experiments. The experiment employs Generative agents to interact with the urban environments using street view images to plan their journey toward specific goals. The agents are given virtual personalities, which make them distinguishable. They are also provided a memory database to store their thoughts and essential visual information and retrieve it when needed to plan their movement. Since LLMs do not possess embodiment, nor have access to the visual realm, and lack a sense of motion or direction, we designed movement and visual modules that help agents gain an overall understanding of surroundings. The agents are further employed to rate the surroundings they encounter based on their perceived sense of safety and liveliness. As these agents store details in their memory, we query the findings to get details regarding their thought processes. Overall, this study experiments with current AI developments and their potential in simulated human behavior in urban environments. Recent developments in Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated their remarkable capabilities across a range of tasks. Questions, however, persist about the nature of LLMs and their potential to integrate common-sense human knowledge when performing tasks involving information about the real physical world. This paper delves into these questions by exploring how LLMs can be extended to interact with and reason about the physical world through IoT sensors and actuators, a concept that we term"Penetrative AI". The paper explores such an extension at two levels of LLMs' ability to penetrate into the physical world via the processing of sensory signals. Our preliminary findings indicate that LLMs, with ChatGPT being the representative example in our exploration, have considerable and unique proficiency in employing the embedded world knowledge for interpreting IoT sensor data and reasoning over them about tasks in the physical realm. Not only this opens up new applications for LLMs beyond traditional text-based tasks, but also enables new ways of incorporating human knowledge in cyber-physical systems. Recent advances in deep generative neural networks have made it possible for artificial intelligence to actively collaborate with human beings in co-creating novel content (e.g. music, art). While substantial research focuses on (individual) human-AI collaborations, comparatively less research examines how AI can play a role in human-human collaborations during co-creation. In a qualitative lab study, we observed 30 participants (15 pairs) compose a musical phrase in pairs, both with and without AI. Our findings reveal that AI may play important roles in influencing human social dynamics during creativity, including: 1) implicitly seeding a common ground at the start of collaboration, 2) acting as a psychological safety net in creative risk-taking, 3) providing a force for group progress, 4) mitigating interpersonal stalling and friction, and 5) altering users’ collaborative and creative roles. This work contributes to the future of generative AI in social creativity by providing implications for how AI could enrich, impede, or alter creative social dynamics in the years to come. This paper explores the potential impact of Generative Artificial Intelligence (Generative AI) on developing countries, considering both positive and negative effects across various domains of information, culture, and industry. Generative Artificial Intelligence refers to artificial intelligence (AI) systems that generate content, such as text, audio, or video, aiming to produce novel and creative outputs based on training data. Compared to conversational artificial intelligence, generative artificial intelligence systems have the unique capability of not only providing replies but also generating the content of those responses. Recent advancements in Artificial Intelligence during the Fourth Industrial Revolution, exemplified by tools like ChatGPT, have gained popularity and reshaped content production and creation. However, the benefits of generative artificial intelligence are not equally accessible to all, especially in developing countries, where limited access to cutting-edge technologies and inadequate infrastructure pose challenges. This paper seeks to understand the potential impact of generative AI technologies on developing countries, considering economic growth, access to technology, and the potential paradigm shift in education, healthcare, and the environment. The findings emphasize the importance of providing the necessary support and infrastructure to ensure that generative AI contributes to inclusive development rather than deepening existing inequalities. The study highlights the significance of integrating Generative AI into the context of the Fourth Industrial Revolution in developing countries, where technological change is a crucial determinant of progress and equitable growth. The two fields of urban planning and artificial intelligence (AI) arose and developed separately. However, there is now cross-pollination and increasing interest in both fields to benefit from the advances of the other. In the present paper, we introduce the importance of urban planning from the sustainability, living, economic, disaster, and environmental perspectives. We review the fundamental concepts of urban planning and relate these concepts to crucial open problems of machine learning, including adversarial learning, generative neural networks, deep encoder-decoder networks, conversational AI, and geospatial and temporal machine learning, thereby assaying how AI can contribute to modern urban planning. Thus, a central problem is automated land-use configuration, which is formulated as the generation of land uses and building configuration for a target area from surrounding geospatial, human mobility, social media, environment, and economic activities. Finally, we delineate some implications of AI for urban planning and propose key research areas at the intersection of both topics. Deep generative models have the potential to fundamentally change the way we create high-fidelity digital content but are often hard to control. Prompting a generative model is a promising recent development that in principle enables end-users to creatively leverage zero-shot and few-shot learning to assign new tasks to an AI ad-hoc, simply by writing them down. However, for the majority of end-users writing effective prompts is currently largely a trial and error process. To address this, we discuss the key opportunities and challenges for interactive creative applications that use prompting as a new paradigm for Human-AI interaction. Based on our analysis, we propose four design goals for user interfaces that support prompting. We illustrate these with concrete UI design sketches, focusing on the use case of creative writing. The research community in HCI and AI can take these as starting points to develop adequate user interfaces for models capable of zero- and few-shot learning. We explore how generative conversational AI can assist students’ learning, creative, and sensemaking process in a visual programming environment where users can create comics from code. The process of visualizing code in terms of comics involves mapping programming language (code) to natural language (story) and then to visual language (of comics). While this process requires users to brainstorm code examples, metaphors, and story ideas, the recent development in generative models introduces an exciting opportunity for learners to harness their creative superpower and researchers to advance our understanding of how generative conversational AI can augment our intelligence in creative learning contexts. We provide an overview of our system and discuss interaction scenarios to demonstrate ways we can partner with generative conversational AI in the context of learning computer programming. Generative AI is a class of machine learning technology that learns to generate new data from training data. While deep fakes and media-and art-related generative AI breakthroughs have recently caught people's attention and imagination, the overall area is in its infancy for business use. Further, little is known about generative AI's potential for malicious misuse at large scale. Using co-creation design fictions with AI engineers, we explore the plausibility and severity of business misuse cases. Engineering robot personalities is a challenge of multiple folds. Every robot that interacts with humans is an individual physical presence that may require their own personality. Thus, robot personalities engineers face a problem that is the reverse of that of personality psychologists: robot personalities engineers need to make batches of identical robots into individual personalities, as oppose to formulating comprehensive yet parsimonious descriptions of individual personalities that already exist. The robot personality research so far has been fruitful in demonstrating the positive effects of robot personality but unfruitful in insights into how robot personalities can be engineered in significant quantities. To engineer robot personalities for mass-produced robots we need a generative personality model with a structure to encode a robot’s individual characteristics as personality traits and generate behaviour with inter- and intra-individual differences that reflect those characteristics. We propose a generative personality model shaped by goals as part of a personality AI for robots towards which we have been working, and we conducted tests to investigate how many individual personalities the model can practically support when it is used for expressing personalities via non-verbal behaviour on the heads of humanoid robots. Abstract Autocompletion is an approach that extends and continues partial user input. We propose to interpret autocompletion as a basic interaction concept in human-AI interaction. We first describe the concept of autocompletion and dissect its user interface and interaction elements, using the well-established textual autocompletion in search engines as an example. We then highlight how these elements reoccur in other application domains, such as code completion, GUI sketching, and layouting. This comparison and transfer highlights an inherent role of such intelligent systems to extend and complete user input, in particular useful for designing interactions with and for generative AI. We reflect on and discuss our conceptual analysis of autocompletion to provide inspiration and a conceptual lens on current challenges in designing for human-AI interaction. Generative Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPT-3 are capable of generating highly fluent responses to a wide variety of user prompts. However, LLMs are known to hallucinate facts and make non-factual statements which can undermine trust in their output. Existing fact-checking approaches either require access to the output probability distribution (which may not be available for systems such as ChatGPT) or external databases that are interfaced via separate, often complex, modules. In this work, we propose"SelfCheckGPT", a simple sampling-based approach that can be used to fact-check the responses of black-box models in a zero-resource fashion, i.e. without an external database. SelfCheckGPT leverages the simple idea that if an LLM has knowledge of a given concept, sampled responses are likely to be similar and contain consistent facts. However, for hallucinated facts, stochastically sampled responses are likely to diverge and contradict one another. We investigate this approach by using GPT-3 to generate passages about individuals from the WikiBio dataset, and manually annotate the factuality of the generated passages. We demonstrate that SelfCheckGPT can: i) detect non-factual and factual sentences; and ii) rank passages in terms of factuality. We compare our approach to several baselines and show that our approach has considerably higher AUC-PR scores in sentence-level hallucination detection and higher correlation scores in passage-level factuality assessment compared to grey-box methods. The high computational and memory requirements of large language model (LLM) inference make it feasible only with multiple high-end accelerators. Motivated by the emerging demand for latency-insensitive tasks with batched processing, this paper initiates the study of high-throughput LLM inference using limited resources, such as a single commodity GPU. We present FlexGen, a high-throughput generation engine for running LLMs with limited GPU memory. FlexGen can be flexibly configured under various hardware resource constraints by aggregating memory and computation from the GPU, CPU, and disk. By solving a linear programming problem, it searches for efficient patterns to store and access tensors. FlexGen further compresses the weights and the attention cache to 4 bits with negligible accuracy loss. These techniques enable FlexGen to have a larger space of batch size choices and thus significantly increase maximum throughput. As a result, when running OPT-175B on a single 16GB GPU, FlexGen achieves significantly higher throughput compared to state-of-the-art offloading systems, reaching a generation throughput of 1 token/s for the first time with an effective batch size of 144. On the HELM benchmark, FlexGen can benchmark a 30B model with a 16GB GPU on 7 representative sub-scenarios in 21 hours. The code is available at https://github.com/FMInference/FlexGen Generative artificial intelligence (AI) is ushering in an era of potential transformation of journalism and media content. This essay considers one notable generative AI platform called ChatGPT made available to the public in 2022 for free use. ChatGPT allows users to enter text prompts and rapidly generates text responses drawn from its knowledge acquired via machine learning in engagement with the internet. This essay is coauthored by a human journalism and media professor in collaboration with ChatGPT. The essay demonstrates the capacity and limitations of ChatGPT and offers reflections on the implications of generative AI for journalism and media education. Generative language models have improved drastically, and can now produce realistic text outputs that are difficult to distinguish from human-written content. For malicious actors, these language models bring the promise of automating the creation of convincing and misleading text for use in influence operations. This report assesses how language models might change influence operations in the future, and what steps can be taken to mitigate this threat. We lay out possible changes to the actors, behaviors, and content of online influence operations, and provide a framework for stages of the language model-to-influence operations pipeline that mitigations could target (model construction, model access, content dissemination, and belief formation). While no reasonable mitigation can be expected to fully prevent the threat of AI-enabled influence operations, a combination of multiple mitigations may make an important difference. Large language models (LLMs) with hundreds of billions of parameters have sparked a new wave of exciting AI applications. However, they are computationally expensive at inference time. Sparsity is a natural approach to reduce this cost, but existing methods either require costly retraining, have to forgo LLM's in-context learning ability, or do not yield wall-clock time speedup on modern hardware. We hypothesize that contextual sparsity, which are small, input-dependent sets of attention heads and MLP parameters that yield approximately the same output as the dense model for a given input, can address these issues. We show that contextual sparsity exists, that it can be accurately predicted, and that we can exploit it to speed up LLM inference in wall-clock time without compromising LLM's quality or in-context learning ability. Based on these insights, we propose DejaVu, a system that uses a low-cost algorithm to predict contextual sparsity on the fly given inputs to each layer, along with an asynchronous and hardware-aware implementation that speeds up LLM inference. We validate that DejaVu can reduce the inference latency of OPT-175B by over 2X compared to the state-of-the-art FasterTransformer, and over 6X compared to the widely used Hugging Face implementation, without compromising model quality. The code is available at https://github.com/FMInference/DejaVu. We examined the productivity effects of a generative artificial intelligence (AI) technology, the assistive chatbot ChatGPT, in the context of midlevel professional writing tasks. In a preregistered online experiment, we assigned occupation-specific, incentivized writing tasks to 453 college-educated professionals and randomly exposed half of them to ChatGPT. Our results show that ChatGPT substantially raised productivity: The average time taken decreased by 40% and output quality rose by 18%. Inequality between workers decreased, and concern and excitement about AI temporarily rose. Workers exposed to ChatGPT during the experiment were 2 times as likely to report using it in their real job 2 weeks after the experiment and 1.6 times as likely 2 months after the experiment. Description Editor’s summary Automation has historically displaced human workers in factories (e.g., automotive manufacturing) or in performing routine computational tasks. Will generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools such as ChatGPT disrupt the labor market by making educated professionals obsolete, or will these tools complement their skills and enhance productivity? Noy and Zhang examined this issue in an experiment that recruited college-educated professionals to complete incentivized writing tasks. Participants assigned to use ChatGPT were more productive, efficient, and enjoyed the tasks more. Participants with weaker skills benefited the most from ChatGPT, which carries policy implications for efforts to reduce productivity inequality through AI. —EEU The assistive chatbot ChatGPT raises productivity in professional writing tasks and reduces productivity inequality. The rapid progress in open-source large language models (LLMs) is significantly advancing AI development. Extensive efforts have been made before model release to align their behavior with human values, with the primary goal of ensuring their helpfulness and harmlessness. However, even carefully aligned models can be manipulated maliciously, leading to unintended behaviors, known as"jailbreaks". These jailbreaks are typically triggered by specific text inputs, often referred to as adversarial prompts. In this work, we propose the generation exploitation attack, an extremely simple approach that disrupts model alignment by only manipulating variations of decoding methods. By exploiting different generation strategies, including varying decoding hyper-parameters and sampling methods, we increase the misalignment rate from 0% to more than 95% across 11 language models including LLaMA2, Vicuna, Falcon, and MPT families, outperforming state-of-the-art attacks with $30\times$ lower computational cost. Finally, we propose an effective alignment method that explores diverse generation strategies, which can reasonably reduce the misalignment rate under our attack. Altogether, our study underscores a major failure in current safety evaluation and alignment procedures for open-source LLMs, strongly advocating for more comprehensive red teaming and better alignment before releasing such models. Our code is available at https://github.com/Princeton-SysML/Jailbreak_LLM. The extraordinary performance of large language models (LLMs) heightens the importance of detecting whether the context is generated by an AI system. More importantly, while more and more companies and institutions release their LLMs, the origin can be hard to trace. Since LLMs are heading towards the time of AGI, similar to the origin tracing in anthropology, it is of great importance to trace the origin of LLMs. In this paper, we first raise the concern of the origin tracing of LLMs and propose an effective method to trace and detect AI-generated contexts. We introduce a novel algorithm that leverages the contrastive features between LLMs and extracts model-wise features to trace the text origins. Our proposed method works under both white-box and black-box settings therefore can be widely generalized to detect various LLMs.(e.g. can be generalized to detect GPT-3 models without the GPT-3 models). Also, our proposed method requires only limited data compared with the supervised learning methods and can be extended to trace new-coming model origins. We construct extensive experiments to examine whether we can trace the origins of given texts. We provide valuable observations based on the experimental results, such as the difficulty level of AI origin tracing, and the AI origin similarities, and call for ethical concerns of LLM providers. We are releasing all codes and data as a toolkit and benchmark for future AI origin tracing and detecting studies. \footnote{We are releasing all available resource at \url{https://github.com/OpenLMLab/}.} We introduce SwiftSage, a novel agent framework inspired by the dual-process theory of human cognition, designed to excel in action planning for complex interactive reasoning tasks. SwiftSage integrates the strengths of behavior cloning and prompting large language models (LLMs) to enhance task completion performance. The framework comprises two primary modules: the Swift module, representing fast and intuitive thinking, and the Sage module, emulating deliberate thought processes. The Swift module is a small encoder-decoder LM fine-tuned on the oracle agent's action trajectories, while the Sage module employs LLMs such as GPT-4 for subgoal planning and grounding. We develop a heuristic method to harmoniously integrate the two modules, resulting in a more efficient and robust problem-solving process. In 30 tasks from the ScienceWorld benchmark, SwiftSage significantly outperforms other methods such as SayCan, ReAct, and Reflexion, demonstrating its effectiveness in solving complex interactive tasks. Large language models (LLMs) are trained on massive internet corpora that often contain copyrighted content. This poses legal and ethical challenges for the developers and users of these models, as well as the original authors and publishers. In this paper, we propose a novel technique for unlearning a subset of the training data from a LLM, without having to retrain it from scratch. We evaluate our technique on the task of unlearning the Harry Potter books from the Llama2-7b model (a generative language model recently open-sourced by Meta). While the model took over 184K GPU-hours to pretrain, we show that in about 1 GPU hour of finetuning, we effectively erase the model's ability to generate or recall Harry Potter-related content, while its performance on common benchmarks (such as Winogrande, Hellaswag, arc, boolq and piqa) remains almost unaffected. We make our fine-tuned model publicly available on HuggingFace for community evaluation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first paper to present an effective technique for unlearning in generative language models. Our technique consists of three main components: First, we use a reinforced model that is further trained on the target data to identify the tokens that are most related to the unlearning target, by comparing its logits with those of a baseline model. Second, we replace idiosyncratic expressions in the target data with generic counterparts, and leverage the model's own predictions to generate alternative labels for every token. These labels aim to approximate the next-token predictions of a model that has not been trained on the target data. Third, we finetune the model on these alternative labels, which effectively erases the original text from the model's memory whenever it is prompted with its context. While generative deep neural networks (DNNs) have demonstrated their capacity for creating novel musical compositions, less attention has been paid to the challenges and potential of co-creating with these musical AIs, especially for novices. In a needfinding study with a widely used, interactive musical AI, we found that the AI can overwhelm users with the amount of musical content it generates, and frustrate them with its non-deterministic output. To better match co-creation needs, we developed AI-steering tools, consisting of Voice Lanes that restrict content generation to particular voices; Example-Based Sliders to control the similarity of generated content to an existing example; Semantic Sliders to nudge music generation in high-level directions (happy/sad, conventional/surprising); and Multiple Alternatives of generated content to audition and choose from. In a summative study (N=21), we discovered the tools not only increased users' trust, control, comprehension, and sense of collaboration with the AI, but also contributed to a greater sense of self-efficacy and ownership of the composition relative to the AI. The field of emotion recognition of conversation (ERC) has been focusing on separating sentence feature encoding and context modeling, lacking exploration in generative paradigms based on unified designs. In this study, we propose a novel approach, \textbf{InstructERC}, to reformulate the ERC task from a discriminative framework to a generative framework based on Large Language Models (LLMs). InstructERC makes three significant contributions: (1) it introduces a simple yet effective retrieval template module, which helps the model explicitly integrate multi-granularity dialogue supervision information. (2) We introduce two additional emotion alignment tasks, namely speaker identification and emotion prediction tasks, to implicitly model the dialogue role relationships and future emotional tendencies in conversations. (3) Pioneeringly, we unify emotion labels across benchmarks through the feeling wheel to fit real application scenarios. InstructERC still perform impressively on this unified dataset. Our LLM-based plugin framework significantly outperforms all previous models and achieves comprehensive SOTA on three commonly used ERC datasets. Extensive analysis of parameter-efficient and data-scaling experiments provides empirical guidance for applying it in practical scenarios. Our code and aligned unified dataset (UIME) can be found in the Github link.\footnote{You can find the offical realization in the Github link: https://github.com/LIN-SHANG/InstructERC} We present LLM-Blender, an ensembling framework designed to attain consistently superior performance by leveraging the diverse strengths of multiple open-source large language models (LLMs). Our framework consists of two modules: PairRanker and GenFuser, addressing the observation that optimal LLMs for different examples can significantly vary. PairRanker employs a specialized pairwise comparison method to distinguish subtle differences between candidate outputs. It jointly encodes the input text and a pair of candidates, using cross-attention encoders to determine the superior one. Our results demonstrate that PairRanker exhibits the highest correlation with ChatGPT-based ranking. Then, GenFuser aims to merge the top-ranked candidates, generating an improved output by capitalizing on their strengths and mitigating their weaknesses. To facilitate large-scale evaluation, we introduce a benchmark dataset, MixInstruct, which is a mixture of multiple instruction datasets featuring oracle pairwise comparisons. Our LLM-Blender significantly outperform individual LLMs and baseline methods across various metrics, establishing a substantial performance gap. The integration of emotional support into various conversational scenarios presents profound societal benefits, such as social interactions, mental health counseling, and customer service. However, there are unsolved challenges that hinder real-world applications in this field, including limited data availability and the absence of well-accepted model training paradigms. This work endeavors to navigate these challenges by harnessing the capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs). We introduce an innovative methodology that synthesizes human insights with the computational prowess of LLMs to curate an extensive emotional support dialogue dataset. Our approach is initiated with a meticulously designed set of dialogues spanning diverse scenarios as generative seeds. By utilizing the in-context learning potential of ChatGPT, we recursively generate an ExTensible Emotional Support dialogue dataset, named ExTES. Following this, we deploy advanced tuning techniques on the LLaMA model, examining the impact of diverse training strategies, ultimately yielding an LLM meticulously optimized for emotional support interactions. An exhaustive assessment of the resultant model showcases its proficiency in offering emotional support, marking a pivotal step in the realm of emotional support bots and paving the way for subsequent research and implementations. With the prosperity of e-commerce and web applications, Recommender Systems (RecSys) have become an important component of our daily life, providing personalized suggestions that cater to user preferences. While Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) have made significant advancements in enhancing recommender systems by modeling user-item interactions and incorporating textual side information, DNN-based methods still face limitations, such as difficulties in understanding users' interests and capturing textual side information, inabilities in generalizing to various recommendation scenarios and reasoning on their predictions, etc. Meanwhile, the emergence of Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT and GPT4, has revolutionized the fields of Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Artificial Intelligence (AI), due to their remarkable abilities in fundamental responsibilities of language understanding and generation, as well as impressive generalization and reasoning capabilities. As a result, recent studies have attempted to harness the power of LLMs to enhance recommender systems. Given the rapid evolution of this research direction in recommender systems, there is a pressing need for a systematic overview that summarizes existing LLM-empowered recommender systems, to provide researchers in relevant fields with an in-depth understanding. Therefore, in this paper, we conduct a comprehensive review of LLM-empowered recommender systems from various aspects including Pre-training, Fine-tuning, and Prompting. More specifically, we first introduce representative methods to harness the power of LLMs (as a feature encoder) for learning representations of users and items. Then, we review recent techniques of LLMs for enhancing recommender systems from three paradigms, namely pre-training, fine-tuning, and prompting. Finally, we comprehensively discuss future directions in this emerging field. Seismic advances in generative AI algorithms have led to the temptation to use AI-synthesized data to train next-generation models. Repeating this process creates autophagous (“self-consuming”) loops whose properties are poorly understood. We conduct a thorough analysis using state-of-the-art generative image models of three autophagous loop families that differ in how they incorporate fixed or fresh real training data and whether previous generations' samples have been biased to trade off data quality versus diversity. Our primary conclusion across all scenarios is that without enough fresh real data in each generation of an autophagous loop, future generative models are doomed to have their quality (precision) or diversity (recall) progressively decrease. We term this condition Model Autophagy Disorder (MAD) and show that appreciable MADness arises in just a few generations. Autonomous driving promises transformative improvements to transportation, but building systems capable of safely navigating the unstructured complexity of real-world scenarios remains challenging. A critical problem lies in effectively predicting the various potential outcomes that may emerge in response to the vehicle's actions as the world evolves. To address this challenge, we introduce GAIA-1 ('Generative AI for Autonomy'), a generative world model that leverages video, text, and action inputs to generate realistic driving scenarios while offering fine-grained control over ego-vehicle behavior and scene features. Our approach casts world modeling as an unsupervised sequence modeling problem by mapping the inputs to discrete tokens, and predicting the next token in the sequence. Emerging properties from our model include learning high-level structures and scene dynamics, contextual awareness, generalization, and understanding of geometry. The power of GAIA-1's learned representation that captures expectations of future events, combined with its ability to generate realistic samples, provides new possibilities for innovation in the field of autonomy, enabling enhanced and accelerated training of autonomous driving technology. Artificial intelligence (AI) and generative language models (GLMs) present significant opportunities for enhancing medical education, including the provision of realistic simulations, digital patients, personalized feedback, evaluation methods, and the elimination of language barriers. These advanced technologies can facilitate immersive learning environments and enhance medical students' educational outcomes. However, ensuring content quality, addressing biases, and managing ethical and legal concerns present obstacles. To mitigate these challenges, it is necessary to evaluate the accuracy and relevance of AI-generated content, address potential biases, and develop guidelines and policies governing the use of AI-generated content in medical education. Collaboration among educators, researchers, and practitioners is essential for developing best practices, guidelines, and transparent AI models that encourage the ethical and responsible use of GLMs and AI in medical education. By sharing information about the data used for training, obstacles encountered, and evaluation methods, developers can increase their credibility and trustworthiness within the medical community. In order to realize the full potential of AI and GLMs in medical education while mitigating potential risks and obstacles, ongoing research and interdisciplinary collaboration are necessary. By collaborating, medical professionals can ensure that these technologies are effectively and responsibly integrated, contributing to enhanced learning experiences and patient care. Generative artificial intelligence (AI) has taken the world by storm. In this editorial, we outline some of the key areas of tertiary education impacted by large language models and associated applications that will require re-thinking and research to address in the short to medium term. Given how rapidly generative AI developments are currently occurring, this editorial is speculative. Although there is a long history of research on AI in education, the current situation is both unprecedented and seemingly not something that the AI in education community fully predicted. We also outline the editorial position of AJET in regards to generative AI to assist authors using tools such as ChatGPT as any part of the research or writing process. This is a rapidly evolving space. We have attempted to provide some clarity in this editorial while acknowledging that we may need to revisit some or all of what we offer here in the weeks and months ahead. Simulation plays a critical role in the research and development of autonomous driving and intelligent transportation systems. However, the current simulation platforms exhibit limitations in the realism and diversity of agent behaviors, which impede the transfer of simulation outcomes to the real world. In this paper, we propose a generative driver agent simulation framework based on large language models (LLMs), capable of perceiving complex traffic scenarios and providing realistic driving maneuvers. Notably, we conducted interviews with 24 drivers and used their detailed descriptions of driving behavior as chain-of-thought prompts to develop a `coach agent' module, which can evaluate and assist driver agents in accumulating driving experience and developing human-like driving styles. Through practical simulation experiments and user experiments, we validate the feasibility of this framework in generating reliable driver agents and analyze the roles of each module. The results show that the framework with full architect decreased the collision rate by 81.04% and increased the human-likeness by 50%. Our research proposes the first urban context driver agent simulation framework based on LLMs and provides valuable insights into the future of agent simulation for complex tasks. 
 This study assesses the diagnostic accuracy of the Generative Pre-trained Transformer 4 (GPT-4) artificial intelligence (AI) model in a series of challenging cases.
 ABSTRACT Artificial intelligence (AI) and the automation of creative work have received little attention in craft education. This study aimed to address this gap by exploring Finnish pre-service craft teachers’ and teacher educators’ (N = 15) insights into the potential benefits and challenges of AI, particularly text-to-image generative AI. This study implemented a hands-on workshop on creative making with text-to-image generative AI in order to stimulate discourses and capture imaginaries concerning generative AI. The results revealed that making with AI inspired teachers to consider the unique nature of crafts as well as the tensions and tradeoffs of adopting generative AI in craft practices. The teachers identified concerns in data-driven design, including algorithmic bias, copyright violations and black-boxing creativity, as well as in power relationships, hybrid influencing and behaviour engineering. The article concludes with a discussion of the complicated relationships the results uncovered between creative making and generative AI. Solving complicated AI tasks with different domains and modalities is a key step toward artificial general intelligence. While there are numerous AI models available for various domains and modalities, they cannot handle complicated AI tasks autonomously. Considering large language models (LLMs) have exhibited exceptional abilities in language understanding, generation, interaction, and reasoning, we advocate that LLMs could act as a controller to manage existing AI models to solve complicated AI tasks, with language serving as a generic interface to empower this. Based on this philosophy, we present HuggingGPT, an LLM-powered agent that leverages LLMs (e.g., ChatGPT) to connect various AI models in machine learning communities (e.g., Hugging Face) to solve AI tasks. Specifically, we use ChatGPT to conduct task planning when receiving a user request, select models according to their function descriptions available in Hugging Face, execute each subtask with the selected AI model, and summarize the response according to the execution results. By leveraging the strong language capability of ChatGPT and abundant AI models in Hugging Face, HuggingGPT can tackle a wide range of sophisticated AI tasks spanning different modalities and domains and achieve impressive results in language, vision, speech, and other challenging tasks, which paves a new way towards the realization of artificial general intelligence. Recommender systems typically retrieve items from an item corpus for personalized recommendations. However, such a retrieval-based recommender paradigm faces two limitations: 1) the human-generated items in the corpus might fail to satisfy the users' diverse information needs, and 2) users usually adjust the recommendations via inefficient passive feedback, e.g., clicks. Nowadays, AI-Generated Content (AIGC) has revealed significant success, offering the potential to overcome these limitations: 1) generative AI can produce personalized items to satisfy users' information needs, and 2) the newly emerged large language models significantly reduce the efforts of users to precisely express information needs via natural language instructions. In this light, the boom of AIGC points the way towards the next-generation recommender paradigm with two new objectives: 1) generating personalized content through generative AI, and 2) integrating user instructions to guide content generation. To this end, we propose a novel Generative Recommender paradigm named GeneRec, which adopts an AI generator to personalize content generation and leverages user instructions. Specifically, we pre-process users' instructions and traditional feedback via an instructor to output the generation guidance. Given the guidance, we instantiate the AI generator through an AI editor and an AI creator to repurpose existing items and create new items. Eventually, GeneRec can perform content retrieval, repurposing, and creation to satisfy users' information needs. Besides, to ensure the trustworthiness of the generated items, we emphasize various fidelity checks. Moreover, we provide a roadmap to envision future developments of GeneRec and several domain-specific applications of GeneRec with potential research tasks. Lastly, we study the feasibility of implementing AI editor and AI creator on micro-video generation. In this work 1 , we investigate how novices co-create music with a deep generative model, and what types of interactive controls are important for an effective co-creation experience. Through a needfinding study, we found that generative AI can overwhelm novices when the AI generates too much content, and can make it hard to express creative goals when outputs appear to be random. To better match co-creation needs, we built Cococo, a music editor web interface that adds interactive capabilities via a set of AI-steering tools. These tools restrict content generation to particular voices and time measures, and help to constrain non-deterministic output to specific high-level directions. We found that the tools helped users increase their control, self-efficacy, and creative ownership, and we describe how the tools affected novices’ strategies for composing and managing their interaction with AI. Sketch drawings play an important role in assisting humans in communication and creative design since ancient period. This situation has motivated the development of artificial intelligence (AI) techniques for automatically generating sketches based on user input. Sketch-RNN, a sequence-to-sequence variational autoencoder (VAE) model, was developed for this purpose and known as a state-of-the-art technique. However, it suffers from limitations, including the generation of lowquality results and its incapability to support multi-class generations. To address these issues, we introduced AI-Sketcher, a deep generative model for generating high-quality multiclass sketches. Our model improves drawing quality by employing a CNN-based autoencoder to capture the positional information of each stroke at the pixel level. It also introduces an influence layer to more precisely guide the generation of each stroke by directly referring to the training data. To support multi-class sketch generation, we provided a conditional vector that can help differentiate sketches under various classes. The proposed technique was evaluated based on two large-scale sketch datasets, and results demonstrated its power in generating high-quality sketches. Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) has brought revolutionary changes to the world, enabling businesses to create new experiences by combining virtual and physical worlds. As the use of GAI grows along with the Metaverse, it is explored by academics, researchers, and industry communities for its endless possibilities. From ChatGPT by OpenAI to Bard AI by Google, GAI is a leading technology in physical and virtual business platforms. This paper focuses on GAI’s economic and societal impact and the challenges it poses. Businesses must rethink their operations and strategies to create hybrid physical and virtual experiences using GAI. This study proposes a framework that can help business managers develop effective strategies to enhance their operations. It analyzes the initial applications of GAI in multiple sectors to promote the development of future customer solutions and explores how GAI can help businesses create new value propositions and experiences for their customers, and the possibilities of digital communication and information technology. A research agenda is proposed for developing GAI for business management to enhance organizational efficiency. The results highlight a healthy conversation on the potential of GAI in various business sectors to improve customer experience. In recent years, large language models (LLM) have emerged as powerful tools for diverse natural language processing tasks. However, their potential for recommender systems under the generative recommendation paradigm remains relatively unexplored. This paper presents an innovative approach to recommendation systems using large language models (LLMs) based on text data. In this paper, we present a novel LLM for generative recommendation (GenRec) that utilized the expressive power of LLM to directly generate the target item to recommend, rather than calculating ranking score for each candidate item one by one as in traditional discriminative recommendation. GenRec uses LLM's understanding ability to interpret context, learn user preferences, and generate relevant recommendation. Our proposed approach leverages the vast knowledge encoded in large language models to accomplish recommendation tasks. We first we formulate specialized prompts to enhance the ability of LLM to comprehend recommendation tasks. Subsequently, we use these prompts to fine-tune the LLaMA backbone LLM on a dataset of user-item interactions, represented by textual data, to capture user preferences and item characteristics. Our research underscores the potential of LLM-based generative recommendation in revolutionizing the domain of recommendation systems and offers a foundational framework for future explorations in this field. We conduct extensive experiments on benchmark datasets, and the experiments shows that our GenRec has significant better results on large dataset. Significant advancements have occurred in the application of Large Language Models (LLMs) for various tasks and social simulations. Despite this, their capacities to coordinate within task-oriented social contexts are under-explored. Such capabilities are crucial if LLMs are to effectively mimic human-like social behavior and produce meaningful results. To bridge this gap, we introduce collaborative generative agents, endowing LLM-based Agents with consistent behavior patterns and task-solving abilities. We situate these agents in a simulated job fair environment as a case study to scrutinize their coordination skills. We propose a novel framework that equips collaborative generative agents with human-like reasoning abilities and specialized skills. Our evaluation demonstrates that these agents show promising performance. However, we also uncover limitations that hinder their effectiveness in more complex coordination tasks. Our work provides valuable insights into the role and evolution of LLMs in task-oriented social simulations. The unregulated use of LLMs can potentially lead to malicious consequences such as plagiarism, generating fake news, spamming, etc. Therefore, reliable detection of AI-generated text can be critical to ensure the responsible use of LLMs. Recent works attempt to tackle this problem either using certain model signatures present in the generated text outputs or by applying watermarking techniques that imprint specific patterns onto them. In this paper, we show that these detectors are not reliable in practical scenarios. In particular, we develop a recursive paraphrasing attack to apply on AI text, which can break a whole range of detectors, including the ones using the watermarking schemes as well as neural network-based detectors, zero-shot classifiers, and retrieval-based detectors. Our experiments include passages around 300 tokens in length, showing the sensitivity of the detectors even in the case of relatively long passages. We also observe that our recursive paraphrasing only degrades text quality slightly, measured via human studies, and metrics such as perplexity scores and accuracy on text benchmarks. Additionally, we show that even LLMs protected by watermarking schemes can be vulnerable against spoofing attacks aimed to mislead detectors to classify human-written text as AI-generated, potentially causing reputational damages to the developers. In particular, we show that an adversary can infer hidden AI text signatures of the LLM outputs without having white-box access to the detection method. Finally, we provide a theoretical connection between the AUROC of the best possible detector and the Total Variation distance between human and AI text distributions that can be used to study the fundamental hardness of the reliable detection problem for advanced language models. Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/vinusankars/Reliability-of-AI-text-detectors. The rapid adoption of generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools that can generate realistic images or text, such as DALL-E, MidJourney, or ChatGPT, have put the societal impacts of these technologies at the center of public debate. These tools are possible due to the massive amount of data (text and images) that is publicly available through the Internet. At the same time, these generative AI tools become content creators that are already contributing to the data that is available to train future models. Therefore, future versions of generative AI tools will be trained with a mix of human-created and AI-generated content, causing a potential feedback loop between generative AI and public data repositories. This interaction raises many questions: how will future versions of generative AI tools behave when trained on a mixture of real and AI generated data? Will they evolve and improve with the new data sets or on the contrary will they degrade? Will evolution introduce biases or reduce diversity in subsequent generations of generative AI tools? What are the societal implications of the possible degradation of these models? Can we mitigate the effects of this feedback loop? In this document, we explore the effect of this interaction and report some initial results using simple diffusion models trained with various image datasets. Our results show that the quality and diversity of the generated images can degrade over time suggesting that incorporating AI-created data can have undesired effects on future versions of generative models. Pre-trained large language models (“LLMs”) like GPT-3 can engage in fluent, multi-turn instruction-taking out-of-the-box, making them attractive materials for designing natural language interactions. Using natural language to steer LLM outputs (“prompting”) has emerged as an important design technique potentially accessible to non-AI-experts. Crafting effective prompts can be challenging, however, and prompt-based interactions are brittle. Here, we explore whether non-AI-experts can successfully engage in “end-user prompt engineering” using a design probe—a prototype LLM-based chatbot design tool supporting development and systematic evaluation of prompting strategies. Ultimately, our probe participants explored prompt designs opportunistically, not systematically, and struggled in ways echoing end-user programming systems and interactive machine learning systems. Expectations stemming from human-to-human instructional experiences, and a tendency to overgeneralize, were barriers to effective prompt design. These findings have implications for non-AI-expert-facing LLM-based tool design and for improving LLM-and-prompt literacy among programmers and the public, and present opportunities for further research. While large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable capabilities across a range of downstream tasks, a significant concern revolves around their propensity to exhibit hallucinations: LLMs occasionally generate content that diverges from the user input, contradicts previously generated context, or misaligns with established world knowledge. This phenomenon poses a substantial challenge to the reliability of LLMs in real-world scenarios. In this paper, we survey recent efforts on the detection, explanation, and mitigation of hallucination, with an emphasis on the unique challenges posed by LLMs. We present taxonomies of the LLM hallucination phenomena and evaluation benchmarks, analyze existing approaches aiming at mitigating LLM hallucination, and discuss potential directions for future research. —Recent breakthroughs in natural language pro- cessing (NLP) have permitted the synthesis and comprehension of coherent text in an open-ended way, therefore translating the theoretical algorithms into practical applications. The large language-model (LLM) has signiﬁcantly impacted businesses such as report summarization softwares and copywriters. Ob-servations indicate, however, that LLMs may exhibit social prejudice and toxicity, posing ethical and societal dangers of consequences resulting from irresponsibility. Large-scale bench- marks for accountable LLMs should consequently be developed. Although several empirical investigations reveal the existence of a few ethical diﬃculties in advanced LLMs, there is no systematic examination and user study of the ethics of current LLMs use. To further educate future eﬀorts on constructing ethical LLMs responsibly, we perform a qualitative research method on OpenAI’s ChatGPT 1 to better understand the practical features of ethical dangers in recent LLMs. We analyze ChatGPT comprehensively from four perspectives: 1) Bias 2) Reliability 3) Robustness 4) Toxicity. In accordance with our stated viewpoints, we empirically benchmark ChatGPT on multiple sample datasets. We ﬁnd that a signiﬁcant number of ethical risks cannot be addressed by existing benchmarks, and hence illustrate them via additional case studies. In addition, we examine the implications of our ﬁndings on the AI ethics of ChatGPT, as well as future problems and practical design considerations for LLMs. We believe that our ﬁndings may give light on future eﬀorts to determine and mitigate the ethical hazards posed by machines in LLM applications. Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently gathered attention with the release of ChatGPT, a user-centered chatbot released by OpenAI. In this perspective article, we retrace the evolution of LLMs to understand the revolution brought by ChatGPT in the artificial intelligence (AI) field. The opportunities offered by LLMs in supporting scientific research are multiple and various models have already been tested in Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks in this domain. The impact of ChatGPT has been huge for the general public and the research community, with many authors using the chatbot to write part of their articles and some papers even listing ChatGPT as an author. Alarming ethical and practical challenges emerge from the use of LLMs, particularly in the medical field for the potential impact on public health. Infodemic is a trending topic in public health and the ability of LLMs to rapidly produce vast amounts of text could leverage misinformation spread at an unprecedented scale, this could create an “AI-driven infodemic,” a novel public health threat. Policies to contrast this phenomenon need to be rapidly elaborated, the inability to accurately detect artificial-intelligence-produced text is an unresolved issue. 
Purpose
This paper aims to provide an overview of key definitions related to ChatGPT, a public tool developed by OpenAI, and its underlying technology, Generative Pretrained Transformer (GPT).


Design/methodology/approach
This paper includes an interview with ChatGPT on its potential impact on academia and libraries. The interview discusses the benefits of ChatGPT such as improving search and discovery, reference and information services; cataloging and metadata generation; and content creation, as well as the ethical considerations that need to be taken into account, such as privacy and bias.


Findings
ChatGPT has considerable power to advance academia and librarianship in both anxiety-provoking and exciting new ways. However, it is important to consider how to use this technology responsibly and ethically, and to uncover how we, as professionals, can work alongside this technology to improve our work, rather than to abuse it or allow it to abuse us in the race to create new scholarly knowledge and educate future professionals.


Originality/value
This paper discusses the history and technology of GPT, including its generative pretrained transformer model, its ability to perform a wide range of language-based tasks and how ChatGPT uses this technology to function as a sophisticated chatbot.
 Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) has proven effective in aligning large language models (LLMs) with human preferences. However, gathering high-quality human preference labels can be a time-consuming and expensive endeavor. RL from AI Feedback (RLAIF), introduced by Bai et al., offers a promising alternative that leverages a powerful off-the-shelf LLM to generate preferences in lieu of human annotators. Across the tasks of summarization, helpful dialogue generation, and harmless dialogue generation, RLAIF achieves comparable or superior performance to RLHF, as rated by human evaluators. Furthermore, RLAIF demonstrates the ability to outperform a supervised fine-tuned baseline even when the LLM preference labeler is the same size as the policy. In another experiment, directly prompting the LLM for reward scores achieves superior performance to the canonical RLAIF setup, where LLM preference labels are first distilled into a reward model. Finally, we conduct extensive studies on techniques for generating aligned AI preferences. Our results suggest that RLAIF can achieve human-level performance, offering a potential solution to the scalability limitations of RLHF. Very large language models (LLMs), such as GPT-3 and Codex have achieved state-of-the-art performance on several natural-language tasks, and show great promise also for code. A particularly exciting aspect of LLMs is their knack for few-shot and zero-shot learning: they can learn to perform a task with very few examples. Few-shotting has particular synergies in software engineering, where there are a lot of phenomena (identifier names, APIs, terminology, coding patterns) that are known to be highly project-specific. However, project-specific data can be quite limited, especially early in the history of a project; thus the few-shot learning capacity of LLMs might be very relevant. In this paper, we investigate the use few-shot training with the very large GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) Codex model, and find evidence suggesting that one can significantly surpass state-of-the-art models for code-summarization, leveraging project-specific training. This paper explores the academic integrity considerations of students’ use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools using Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT in formal assessments. We examine the evolution of these tools, and highlight the potential ways that LLMs can support in the education of students in digital writing and beyond, including the teaching of writing and composition, the possibilities of co-creation between humans and AI, supporting EFL learners, and improving Automated Writing Evaluations (AWE). We describe and demonstrate the potential that these tools have in creating original, coherent text that can avoid detection by existing technological methods of detection and trained academic staff alike, demonstrating a major academic integrity concern related to the use of these tools by students. Analysing the various issues related to academic integrity that LLMs raise for both Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) and students, we conclude that it is not the student use of any AI tools that defines whether plagiarism or a breach of academic integrity has occurred, but whether any use is made clear by the student. Deciding whether any particular use of LLMs by students can be defined as academic misconduct is determined by the academic integrity policies of any given HEI, which must be updated to consider how these tools will be used in future educational environments. Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated their significant potential to be applied for addressing various application tasks. However, traditional recommender systems continue to face great challenges such as poor interactivity and explainability, which actually also hinder their broad deployment in real-world systems. To address these limitations, this paper proposes a novel paradigm called Chat-Rec (ChatGPT Augmented Recommender System) that innovatively augments LLMs for building conversational recommender systems by converting user profiles and historical interactions into prompts. Chat-Rec is demonstrated to be effective in learning user preferences and establishing connections between users and products through in-context learning, which also makes the recommendation process more interactive and explainable. What's more, within the Chat-Rec framework, user's preferences can transfer to different products for cross-domain recommendations, and prompt-based injection of information into LLMs can also handle the cold-start scenarios with new items. In our experiments, Chat-Rec effectively improve the results of top-k recommendations and performs better in zero-shot rating prediction task. Chat-Rec offers a novel approach to improving recommender systems and presents new practical scenarios for the implementation of AIGC (AI generated content) in recommender system studies. As large language models (LLMs) like OpenAI's GPT series continue to make strides, we witness the emergence of artificial intelligence applications in an ever-expanding range of fields. In medicine, these LLMs hold considerable promise for improving medical workflows, diagnostics, patient care, and education. Yet, there is an urgent need for open-source models that can be deployed on-premises to safeguard patient privacy. In our work, we present an innovative dataset consisting of over 160,000 entries, specifically crafted to fine-tune LLMs for effective medical applications. We investigate the impact of fine-tuning these datasets on publicly accessible pre-trained LLMs, and subsequently, we juxtapose the performance of pre-trained-only models against the fine-tuned models concerning the examinations that future medical doctors must pass to achieve certification. 
 This Viewpoint describes medical applications of generative pretrained transformers (GPTs) and related artificial intelligence (AI) technologies and considers whether new forms of regulation are necessary to minimize safety and legal risks to patients and clinicians.
 The OpenAI’s ChatGPT-3, or Chat Generative Pre-Trained Transformer was released in November 2022 without significant warning, and has taken higher education by storm since. The artificial intelligence (AI)-powered chatbot has caused alarm for practitioners seeking to detect authenticity of student work. Whereas some educational doomsayers predict the end of education in its current form, we propose an alternate early view. We identify in this commentary a position where educators can leverage AI like ChatGPT to build supportive learning environments for students who have cultivated good character. Such students know how to use ChatGPT for good, and can engage effectively with the ChatGPT application. In building our ChatGPT argument, we acknowledge the existing literature on plagiarism and academic integrity, and consider leadership as a root support mechanism, character development as an antidote, and authentic assessment as an enabler. In doing so, we highlight that while ChatGPT – like papermills, and degree factories before it – can be used to cheat on university exams, it can also be used to support deeper learning and better learning outcomes for students. In doing so, we offer a commentary that offers opportunities for practitioners, and research potential for scholars. The rise of large language models (LLMs) had a transformative impact on search, ushering in a new era of search engines that are capable of generating search results in natural language text, imbued with citations for supporting sources. Building generative information-seeking models demands openly accessible datasets, which currently remain lacking. In this paper, we introduce a new dataset, HAGRID (Human-in-the-loop Attributable Generative Retrieval for Information-seeking Dataset) for building end-to-end generative information-seeking models that are capable of retrieving candidate quotes and generating attributed explanations. Unlike recent efforts that focus on human evaluation of black-box proprietary search engines, we built our dataset atop the English subset of MIRACL, a publicly available information retrieval dataset. HAGRID is constructed based on human and LLM collaboration. We first automatically collect attributed explanations that follow an in-context citation style using an LLM, i.e. GPT-3.5. Next, we ask human annotators to evaluate the LLM explanations based on two criteria: informativeness and attributability. HAGRID serves as a catalyst for the development of information-seeking models with better attribution capabilities. Objective The primary aim of this research was to address the limitations observed in the medical knowledge of prevalent large language models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT, by creating a specialized language model with enhanced accuracy in medical advice. Methods We achieved this by adapting and refining the large language model meta-AI (LLaMA) using a large dataset of 100,000 patient-doctor dialogues sourced from a widely used online medical consultation platform. These conversations were cleaned and anonymized to respect privacy concerns. In addition to the model refinement, we incorporated a self-directed information retrieval mechanism, allowing the model to access and utilize real-time information from online sources like Wikipedia and data from curated offline medical databases. Results The fine-tuning of the model with real-world patient-doctor interactions significantly improved the model's ability to understand patient needs and provide informed advice. By equipping the model with self-directed information retrieval from reliable online and offline sources, we observed substantial improvements in the accuracy of its responses. Conclusion Our proposed ChatDoctor, represents a significant advancement in medical LLMs, demonstrating a significant improvement in understanding patient inquiries and providing accurate advice. Given the high stakes and low error tolerance in the medical field, such enhancements in providing accurate and reliable information are not only beneficial but essential. PurposeThe primary purpose of this paper is to examine how generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) such as ChatGPT may serve as a new context for management theories and concepts.Design/methodology/approachThe paper presents the analyses of selected management theories on decision-making, knowledge management, customer service, human resource management and administrative tasks and explains what may change after generative AI adoption.FindingsThe paper indicates that some management theories and concepts need to be studied in the generative AI environment that may influence managerial work at the strategic, functional and administrative levels.Research limitations/implicationsThis paper is an opinion piece article and does not refer to empirical data. It formulates some conclusions to further empirical research studies.Originality/valueThe paper analyzes selected management theories in a new technological setting. The paper also provides information about the functions of generative AI that are useful in understanding and overcoming how new technology may change organizations and management. Generative AI tools hold promise to increase human productivity. This paper presents results from a controlled experiment with GitHub Copilot, an AI pair programmer. Recruited software developers were asked to implement an HTTP server in JavaScript as quickly as possible. The treatment group, with access to the AI pair programmer, completed the task 55.8% faster than the control group. Observed heterogenous effects show promise for AI pair programmers to help people transition into software development careers. We study whether multiple large language models (LLMs) can autonomously improve each other in a negotiation game by playing, reflecting, and criticizing. We are interested in this question because if LLMs were able to improve each other, it would imply the possibility of creating strong AI agents with minimal human intervention. We ask two LLMs to negotiate with each other, playing the roles of a buyer and a seller, respectively. They aim to reach a deal with the buyer targeting a lower price and the seller a higher one. A third language model, playing the critic, provides feedback to a player to improve the player's negotiation strategies. We let the two agents play multiple rounds, using previous negotiation history and AI feedback as in-context demonstrations to improve the model's negotiation strategy iteratively. We use different LLMs (GPT and Claude) for different roles and use the deal price as the evaluation metric. Our experiments reveal multiple intriguing findings: (1) Only a subset of the language models we consider can self-play and improve the deal price from AI feedback, weaker models either do not understand the game's rules or cannot incorporate AI feedback for further improvement. (2) Models' abilities to learn from the feedback differ when playing different roles. For example, it is harder for Claude-instant to improve as the buyer than as the seller. (3) When unrolling the game to multiple rounds, stronger agents can consistently improve their performance by meaningfully using previous experiences and iterative AI feedback, yet have a higher risk of breaking the deal. We hope our work provides insightful initial explorations of having models autonomously improve each other with game playing and AI feedback. The widespread adoption of large language models (LLMs) across diverse AI applications is proof of the outstanding achievements obtained in several tasks, such as text mining, text generation, and question answering. However, LLMs are not exempt from drawbacks. One of the most concerning aspects regards the emerging problematic phenomena known as"Hallucinations". They manifest in text generation systems, particularly in question-answering systems reliant on LLMs, potentially resulting in false or misleading information propagation. This paper delves into the underlying causes of AI hallucination and elucidates its significance in artificial intelligence. In particular, Hallucination classification is tackled over several tasks (Machine Translation, Question and Answer, Dialog Systems, Summarisation Systems, Knowledge Graph with LLMs, and Visual Question Answer). Additionally, we explore potential strategies to mitigate hallucinations, aiming to enhance the overall reliability of LLMs. Our research addresses this critical issue within the HeReFaNMi (Health-Related Fake News Mitigation) project, generously supported by NGI Search, dedicated to combating Health-Related Fake News dissemination on the Internet. This endeavour represents a concerted effort to safeguard the integrity of information dissemination in an age of evolving AI technologies. While advanced text generation algorithms (e.g., GPT-3) have enabled writers to co-create stories with an AI, guiding the narrative remains a challenge. Existing systems often leverage simple turn-taking between the writer and the AI in story development. However, writers remain unsupported in intuitively understanding the AI’s actions or steering the iterative generation. We introduce TaleBrush, a generative story ideation tool that uses line sketching interactions with a GPT-based language model for control and sensemaking of a protagonist’s fortune in co-created stories. Our empirical evaluation found our pipeline reliably controls story generation while maintaining the novelty of generated sentences. In a user study with 14 participants with diverse writing experiences, we found participants successfully leveraged sketching to iteratively explore and write stories according to their intentions about the character’s fortune while taking inspiration from generated stories. We conclude with a reflection on how sketching interactions can facilitate the iterative human-AI co-creation process. The introduction of OpenAI Codex sparked a surge of interest in the impact of generative AI models on computing education practices. Codex is also the underlying model for GitHub Copilot, a plugin which makes AI-generated code accessible to students through auto-completion in popular code editors. Research in this area, particularly on the educational implications, is nascent and has focused almost exclusively on introductory programming (or CS1) questions. Very recent work has shown that Codex performs considerably better on typical CS1 exam questions than most students. It is not clear, however, what Codex’s limits are with regard to more complex programming assignments and exams. In this paper, we present results detailing how Codex performs on more advanced CS2 (data structures and algorithms) exam questions taken from past exams. We compare these results to those of students who took the same exams under normal conditions, demonstrating that Codex outscores most students. We consider the implications of such tools for the future of undergraduate computing education. Medicine is inherently multimodal, with rich data modalities spanning text, imaging, genomics, and more. Generalist biomedical artificial intelligence (AI) systems that flexibly encode, integrate, and interpret this data at scale can potentially enable impactful applications ranging from scientific discovery to care delivery. To enable the development of these models, we first curate MultiMedBench, a new multimodal biomedical benchmark. MultiMedBench encompasses 14 diverse tasks such as medical question answering, mammography and dermatology image interpretation, radiology report generation and summarization, and genomic variant calling. We then introduce Med-PaLM Multimodal (Med-PaLM M), our proof of concept for a generalist biomedical AI system. Med-PaLM M is a large multimodal generative model that flexibly encodes and interprets biomedical data including clinical language, imaging, and genomics with the same set of model weights. Med-PaLM M reaches performance competitive with or exceeding the state of the art on all MultiMedBench tasks, often surpassing specialist models by a wide margin. We also report examples of zero-shot generalization to novel medical concepts and tasks, positive transfer learning across tasks, and emergent zero-shot medical reasoning. To further probe the capabilities and limitations of Med-PaLM M, we conduct a radiologist evaluation of model-generated (and human) chest X-ray reports and observe encouraging performance across model scales. In a side-by-side ranking on 246 retrospective chest X-rays, clinicians express a pairwise preference for Med-PaLM M reports over those produced by radiologists in up to 40.50% of cases, suggesting potential clinical utility. While considerable work is needed to validate these models in real-world use cases, our results represent a milestone towards the development of generalist biomedical AI systems. ChatGPT is a generative language model tool launched by OpenAI on November 30, 2022, enabling the public to converse with a machine on a broad range of topics. In January 2023, ChatGPT reached over 100 million users, making it the fastest-growing consumer application to date. This interview with ChatGPT is part 2 of a larger interview with ChatGPT. It provides a snapshot of the current capabilities of ChatGPT and illustrates the vast potential for medical education, research, and practice but also hints at current problems and limitations. In this conversation with Gunther Eysenbach, the founder and publisher of JMIR Publications, ChatGPT generated some ideas on how to use chatbots in medical education. It also illustrated its capabilities to generate a virtual patient simulation and quizzes for medical students; critiqued a simulated doctor-patient communication and attempts to summarize a research article (which turned out to be fabricated); commented on methods to detect machine-generated text to ensure academic integrity; generated a curriculum for health professionals to learn about artificial intelligence (AI); and helped to draft a call for papers for a new theme issue to be launched in JMIR Medical Education on ChatGPT. The conversation also highlighted the importance of proper “prompting.” Although the language generator does make occasional mistakes, it admits these when challenged. The well-known disturbing tendency of large language models to hallucinate became evident when ChatGPT fabricated references. The interview provides a glimpse into the capabilities and limitations of ChatGPT and the future of AI-supported medical education. Due to the impact of this new technology on medical education, JMIR Medical Education is launching a call for papers for a new e-collection and theme issue. The initial draft of the call for papers was entirely machine generated by ChatGPT, but will be edited by the human guest editors of the theme issue. We study the problem of watermarking large language models (LLMs) generated text -- one of the most promising approaches for addressing the safety challenges of LLM usage. In this paper, we propose a rigorous theoretical framework to quantify the effectiveness and robustness of LLM watermarks. We propose a robust and high-quality watermark method, Unigram-Watermark, by extending an existing approach with a simplified fixed grouping strategy. We prove that our watermark method enjoys guaranteed generation quality, correctness in watermark detection, and is robust against text editing and paraphrasing. Experiments on three varying LLMs and two datasets verify that our Unigram-Watermark achieves superior detection accuracy and comparable generation quality in perplexity, thus promoting the responsible use of LLMs. Code is available at https://github.com/XuandongZhao/Unigram-Watermark. Over the last decade, technological advancements, especially artificial intelligence (AI), have significantly transformed educational practices. Recently, the development and adoption of Generative Pre-trained Transformers (GPT), particularly OpenAI’s ChatGPT, has sparked considerable interest. The unprecedented capabilities of these models, such as generating humanlike text and facilitating automated conversations, have broad implications in various sectors, including education and health. Despite their immense potential, concerns regarding their widespread use and opacity have been raised within the scientific community. ChatGPT, the latest version of the GPT series, has displayed remarkable proficiency, passed the US bar law exam, and amassed over a million subscribers shortly after its launch. However, its impact on the education sector has elicited mixed reactions, with some educators heralding it as a progressive step and others raising alarms over its potential to reduce analytical skills and promote misconduct. This paper aims to delve into these discussions, exploring the potential and problems associated with applying advanced AI models in education. It builds on extant literature and contributes to understanding how these technologies reshape educational norms in the “new AI gold rush” era. Industrial recommender systems have been growing increasingly complex, may involve \emph{diverse domains} such as e-commerce products and user-generated contents, and can comprise \emph{a myriad of tasks} such as retrieval, ranking, explanation generation, and even AI-assisted content production. The mainstream approach so far is to develop individual algorithms for each domain and each task. In this paper, we explore the possibility of developing a unified foundation model to support \emph{open-ended domains and tasks} in an industrial recommender system, which may reduce the demand on downstream settings' data and can minimize the carbon footprint by avoiding training a separate model from scratch for every task. Deriving a unified foundation is challenging due to (i) the potentially unlimited set of downstream domains and tasks, and (ii) the real-world systems' emphasis on computational efficiency. We thus build our foundation upon M6, an existing large-scale industrial pretrained language model similar to GPT-3 and T5, and leverage M6's pretrained ability for sample-efficient downstream adaptation, by representing user behavior data as plain texts and converting the tasks to either language understanding or generation. To deal with a tight hardware budget, we propose an improved version of prompt tuning that outperforms fine-tuning with negligible 1\% task-specific parameters, and employ techniques such as late interaction, early exiting, parameter sharing, and pruning to further reduce the inference time and the model size. We demonstrate the foundation model's versatility on a wide range of tasks such as retrieval, ranking, zero-shot recommendation, explanation generation, personalized content creation, and conversational recommendation, and manage to deploy it on both cloud servers and mobile devices. The use of Generative AI in software development is gaining traction. But what are the potentials and implications on software development education? We gathered insights on the use of Generative AI from professional software developers and make some pedagogical recommendations. To address the challenges of digital intelligence in the digital economy, artificial intelligence-generated content (AIGC) has emerged. AIGC uses artificial intelligence to assist or replace manual content generation by generating content based on user-inputted keywords or requirements. The development of large model algorithms has significantly strengthened the capabilities of AIGC, which makes AIGC products a promising generative tool and adds convenience to our lives. As an upstream technology, AIGC has unlimited potential to support different downstream applications. It is important to analyze AIGC's current capabilities and shortcomings to understand how it can be best utilized in future applications. Therefore, this paper provides an extensive overview of AIGC, covering its definition, essential conditions, cutting-edge capabilities, and advanced features. Moreover, it discusses the benefits of large-scale pre-trained models and the industrial chain of AIGC. Furthermore, the article explores the distinctions between auxiliary generation and automatic generation within AIGC, providing examples of text generation. The paper also examines the potential integration of AIGC with the Metaverse. Lastly, the article highlights existing issues and suggests some future directions for application. Learning technologies often do not meet the university requirements for learner engagement via interactivity and real-time feedback. In addition to the challenge of providing personalized learning experiences for students, these technologies can increase the workload of instructors due to the maintenance and updates required to keep the courses up-to-date. Intelligent chatbots based on generative artificial intelligence (AI) technology can help overcome these disadvantages by transforming pedagogical activities and guiding both students and instructors interactively. In this study, we explore and compare the main characteristics of existing educational chatbots. Then, we propose a new theoretical framework for blended learning with intelligent chatbots integration enabling students to interact online and instructors to create and manage their courses using generative AI tools. The advantages of the proposed framework are as follows: (1) it provides a comprehensive understanding of the transformative potential of AI chatbots in education and facilitates their effective implementation; (2) it offers a holistic methodology to enhance the overall educational experience; and (3) it unifies the applications of intelligent chatbots in teaching–learning activities within universities. Generative Artificial Intelligence (GAI) has emerged as a transformative force in higher education, offering both challenges and opportunities. This paper explores the multifaceted impact of GAI on academic work, with a focus on student life and, in particular, the implications for international students. While GAI, exemplified by models like ChatGPT, has the potential to revolutionize education, concerns about academic integrity have arisen, leading to debates on the use of AI detection tools. This essay highlights the difficulties in reliably detecting AI-generated content, raising concerns about potential false accusations against students. It also discusses biases within AI models, emphasizing the need for fairness and equity in AI-based assessments with a particular emphasis on the disproportionate impact of GAI on international students, who already face biases and discrimination. It also highlights the potential for AI to mitigate some of these challenges by providing language support and accessibility features. Finally, this essay acknowledges the disruptive potential of GAI in higher education and calls for a balanced approach that addresses both the challenges and opportunities it presents by emphasizing the importance of AI literacy and ethical considerations in adopting AI technologies to ensure equitable access and positive outcomes for all students. We offer a coda to Ng et al.’s AI competency framework, mapped to the Revised Bloom’s Taxonomy, through a lens of cultural competence with AI as a means of supporting educators to use these tools equitably in their teaching. Recommending suitable jobs to users is a critical task in online recruitment platforms. While existing job recommendation methods encounter challenges such as the low quality of users' resumes, which hampers their accuracy and practical effectiveness.With the rapid development of large language models (LLMs), utilizing the rich external knowledge encapsulated within them, as well as their powerful reasoning capabilities, is a promising way to complete users' resumes for more accurate recommendations. However, directly leveraging LLMs to enhance recommendation results is not a one-size-fits-all solution, as LLMs may suffer from fabricated generation and few-shot problems, which degrade the quality of resume completion.

In this paper, we propose a novel LLM-based approach for job recommendation. To alleviate the limitation of fabricated generation for LLMs, we extract accurate and valuable information beyond users' self-description, which helps the LLMs better profile users for resume completion. Specifically, we not only extract users' explicit properties (e.g., skills, interests) from their self-description but also infer users' implicit characteristics from their behaviors for more accurate and meaningful resume completion. Nevertheless, some users still suffer from few-shot problems, which arise due to scarce interaction records, leading to limited guidance for high-quality resume generation. To address this issue, we propose aligning unpaired low-quality with high-quality generated resumes by Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), which can refine the resume representations for better recommendation results. Extensive experiments on three large real-world recruitment datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method. Large language models utilizing transformer neural networks and other deep learning architectures demonstrated unprecedented results in many tasks previously accessible only to human intelligence. In this article, we collaborate with ChatGPT, an AI model developed by OpenAI to speculate on the applications of Rapamycin, in the context of Pascal’s Wager philosophical argument commonly utilized to justify the belief in god. In response to the query “Write an exhaustive research perspective on why taking Rapamycin may be more beneficial than not taking Rapamycin from the perspective of Pascal’s wager” ChatGPT provided the pros and cons for the use of Rapamycin considering the preclinical evidence of potential life extension in animals. This article demonstrates the potential of ChatGPT to produce complex philosophical arguments and should not be used for any off-label use of Rapamycin. Our work addresses the critical issue of distinguishing text generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) from human-produced text, a task essential for numerous applications. Despite ongoing debate about the feasibility of such differentiation, we present evidence supporting its consistent achievability, except when human and machine text distributions are indistinguishable across their entire support. Drawing from information theory, we argue that as machine-generated text approximates human-like quality, the sample size needed for detection increases. We establish precise sample complexity bounds for detecting AI-generated text, laying groundwork for future research aimed at developing advanced, multi-sample detectors. Our empirical evaluations across multiple datasets (Xsum, Squad, IMDb, and Kaggle FakeNews) confirm the viability of enhanced detection methods. We test various state-of-the-art text generators, including GPT-2, GPT-3.5-Turbo, Llama, Llama-2-13B-Chat-HF, and Llama-2-70B-Chat-HF, against detectors, including oBERTa-Large/Base-Detector, GPTZero. Our findings align with OpenAI's empirical data related to sequence length, marking the first theoretical substantiation for these observations. Personalized news recommendation systems have become essential tools for users to navigate the vast amount of online news content, yet existing news recommenders face significant challenges such as the cold-start problem, user profile modeling, and news content understanding. Previous works have typically followed an inflexible routine to address a particular challenge through model design, but are limited in their ability to understand news content and capture user interests. In this paper, we introduce GENRE, an LLM-powered generative news recommendation framework, which leverages pretrained semantic knowledge from large language models to enrich news data. Our aim is to provide a flexible and unified solution for news recommendation by moving from model design to prompt design. We showcase the use of GENRE for personalized news generation, user profiling, and news summarization. Extensive experiments with various popular recommendation models demonstrate the effectiveness of GENRE. We will publish our code and data 1 for other researchers to reproduce our work. ABSTRACT Artificial intelligence (AI) has been heralded as one of the key technological innovations of the 21st century. Within healthcare, much attention has been placed upon the ability of deductive AI systems to analyse large datasets to find patterns that would be unfeasible to program. Generative AI, including generative adversarial networks, are a newer type of machine learning that functions to create fake data after learning the properties of real data. Artificially generated patient data has the potential to revolutionise clinical research and protect patient privacy. Using novel techniques, it is increasingly possible to fully anonymise datasets to the point where no datapoint is traceable to any real individual. This can be used to expand and balance datasets as well as to replace the use of real patient data in certain contexts. This paper focuses upon three key uses of synthetic data: clinical research, data privacy and medical education. We also highlight ethical and practical concerns that require consideration. We introduce GAIA, a benchmark for General AI Assistants that, if solved, would represent a milestone in AI research. GAIA proposes real-world questions that require a set of fundamental abilities such as reasoning, multi-modality handling, web browsing, and generally tool-use proficiency. GAIA questions are conceptually simple for humans yet challenging for most advanced AIs: we show that human respondents obtain 92\% vs. 15\% for GPT-4 equipped with plugins. This notable performance disparity contrasts with the recent trend of LLMs outperforming humans on tasks requiring professional skills in e.g. law or chemistry. GAIA's philosophy departs from the current trend in AI benchmarks suggesting to target tasks that are ever more difficult for humans. We posit that the advent of Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) hinges on a system's capability to exhibit similar robustness as the average human does on such questions. Using GAIA's methodology, we devise 466 questions and their answer. We release our questions while retaining answers to 300 of them to power a leader-board available at https://huggingface.co/gaia-benchmark. CatAlyst uses generative models to help workers’ progress by influencing their task engagement instead of directly contributing to their task outputs. It prompts distracted workers to resume their tasks by generating a continuation of their work and presenting it as an intervention that is more context-aware than conventional (predetermined) feedback. The prompt can function by drawing their interest and lowering the hurdle for resumption even when the generated continuation is insufficient to substitute their work, while recent human-AI collaboration research aiming at work substitution depends on a stable high accuracy. This frees CatAlyst from domain-specific model-tuning and makes it applicable to various tasks. Our studies involving writing and slide-editing tasks demonstrated CatAlyst’s effectiveness in helping workers swiftly resume tasks with a lowered cognitive load. The results suggest a new form of human-AI collaboration where large generative models publicly available but imperfect for each individual domain can contribute to workers’ digital well-being. Background The recent release of large language models (LLMs) for public use, such as ChatGPT and Google Bard, has opened up a multitude of potential benefits as well as challenges. Purpose To evaluate and compare the accuracy and consistency of responses generated by publicly available ChatGPT-3.5 and Google Bard to non-expert questions related to lung cancer prevention, screening, and terminology commonly used in radiology reports based on the recommendation of Lung Imaging Reporting and Data System (Lung-RADS) v2022 from American College of Radiology and Fleischner society. Materials and Methods Forty of the exact same questions were created and presented to ChatGPT-3.5 and Google Bard experimental version as well as Bing and Google search engines by three different authors of this paper. Each answer was reviewed by two radiologists for accuracy. Responses were scored as correct, partially correct, incorrect, or unanswered. Consistency was also evaluated among the answers. Here, consistency was defined as the agreement between the three answers provided by ChatGPT-3.5, Google Bard experimental version, Bing, and Google search engines regardless of whether the concept conveyed was correct or incorrect. The accuracy among different tools were evaluated using Stata. Results ChatGPT-3.5 answered 120 questions with 85 (70.8%) correct, 14 (11.7%) partially correct, and 21 (17.5%) incorrect. Google Bard did not answer 23 (19.1%) questions. Among the 97 questions answered by Google Bard, 62 (51.7%) were correct, 11 (9.2%) were partially correct, and 24 (20%) were incorrect. Bing answered 120 questions with 74 (61.7%) correct, 13 (10.8%) partially correct, and 33 (27.5%) incorrect. Google search engine answered 120 questions with 66 (55%) correct, 27 (22.5%) partially correct, and 27 (22.5%) incorrect. The ChatGPT-3.5 is more likely to provide correct or partially answer than Google Bard, approximately by 1.5 folds (OR = 1.55, P = 0.004). ChatGPT-3.5 and Google search engine were more likely to be consistent than Google Bard by approximately 7 and 29 folds (OR = 6.65, P = 0.002 for ChatGPT and OR = 28.83, P = 0.002 for Google search engine, respectively). Conclusion Although ChatGPT-3.5 had a higher accuracy in comparison with the other tools, neither ChatGPT nor Google Bard, Bing and Google search engines answered all questions correctly and with 100% consistency. We introduce Llama Guard, an LLM-based input-output safeguard model geared towards Human-AI conversation use cases. Our model incorporates a safety risk taxonomy, a valuable tool for categorizing a specific set of safety risks found in LLM prompts (i.e., prompt classification). This taxonomy is also instrumental in classifying the responses generated by LLMs to these prompts, a process we refer to as response classification. For the purpose of both prompt and response classification, we have meticulously gathered a dataset of high quality. Llama Guard, a Llama2-7b model that is instruction-tuned on our collected dataset, albeit low in volume, demonstrates strong performance on existing benchmarks such as the OpenAI Moderation Evaluation dataset and ToxicChat, where its performance matches or exceeds that of currently available content moderation tools. Llama Guard functions as a language model, carrying out multi-class classification and generating binary decision scores. Furthermore, the instruction fine-tuning of Llama Guard allows for the customization of tasks and the adaptation of output formats. This feature enhances the model's capabilities, such as enabling the adjustment of taxonomy categories to align with specific use cases, and facilitating zero-shot or few-shot prompting with diverse taxonomies at the input. We are making Llama Guard model weights available and we encourage researchers to further develop and adapt them to meet the evolving needs of the community for AI safety. Recently, large language models have made huge advances in generating coherent, creative text. While much research focuses on how users can interact with language models, less work considers the social-technical gap that this technology poses. What are the social nuances that underlie receiving support from a generative AI? In this work we ask when and why a creative writer might turn to a computer versus a peer or mentor for support. We interview 20 creative writers about their writing practice and their attitudes towards both human and computer support. We discover three elements that govern a writer’s interaction with support actors: 1) what writers desire help with, 2) how writers perceive potential support actors, and 3) the values writers hold. We align our results with existing frameworks of writing cognition and creativity support, uncovering the social dynamics which modulate user responses to generative technologies. Recent large language models (LLMs) have advanced the quality of open-ended conversations with chatbots. Although LLM-driven chatbots have the potential to support public health interventions by monitoring populations at scale through empathetic interactions, their use in real-world settings is underexplored. We thus examine the case of CareCall, an open-domain chatbot that aims to support socially isolated individuals via check-up phone calls and monitoring by teleoperators. Through focus group observations and interviews with 34 people from three stakeholder groups, including the users, the teleoperators, and the developers, we found CareCall offered a holistic understanding of each individual while offloading the public health workload and helped mitigate loneliness and emotional burdens. However, our findings highlight that traits of LLM-driven chatbots led to challenges in supporting public and personal health needs. We discuss considerations of designing and deploying LLM-driven chatbots for public health intervention, including tensions among stakeholders around system expectations. The last century can be considered the era of technology. There are always new technologies blooming. The time span between the developments of technology shortened. The acceptance and adoption of each new technology can be different. However, the technology acceptance model (TAM) and diffusion of innovation theory (DOI) propose that there are some patterns for usage of any new technologies. Meanwhile, there is tremendous interest on artificial intelligence (AI) technologies after the ChatGPT trend. Thus, the purpose of is study is to explore the most current literature review of the acceptance and adoption of ChatGPT and Google Bard type Large Language Models (LLM) and generative AI by educational settings. The study used literature review methodology. The review was a systematic perspective which going through the study on acceptance and adoption of some popular technology in education settings in the current days. The review of the literature shows that there is an acceptance of the models in education but with doubts.   Recent advances in large language models (LLMs) and the intensifying popularity of ChatGPT-like applications have blurred the boundary of high-quality text generation between humans and machines. However, in addition to the anticipated revolutionary changes to our technology and society, the difficulty of distinguishing LLM-generated texts (AI-text) from human-generated texts poses new challenges of misuse and fairness, such as fake content generation, plagiarism, and false accusations of innocent writers. While existing works show that current AI-text detectors are not robust to LLM-based paraphrasing, this paper aims to bridge this gap by proposing a new framework called RADAR, which jointly trains a robust AI-text detector via adversarial learning. RADAR is based on adversarial training of a paraphraser and a detector. The paraphraser's goal is to generate realistic content to evade AI-text detection. RADAR uses the feedback from the detector to update the paraphraser, and vice versa. Evaluated with 8 different LLMs (Pythia, Dolly 2.0, Palmyra, Camel, GPT-J, Dolly 1.0, LLaMA, and Vicuna) across 4 datasets, experimental results show that RADAR significantly outperforms existing AI-text detection methods, especially when paraphrasing is in place. We also identify the strong transferability of RADAR from instruction-tuned LLMs to other LLMs, and evaluate the improved capability of RADAR via GPT-3.5-Turbo. Large-scale pre-training has recently emerged as a technique for creating capable, general-purpose, generative models such as GPT-3, Megatron-Turing NLG, Gopher, and many others. In this paper, we highlight a counterintuitive property of such models and discuss the policy implications of this property. Namely, these generative models have a paradoxical combination of predictable loss on a broad training distribution (as embodied in their ”scaling laws”), and unpredictable specific capabilities, inputs, and outputs. We believe that the high-level predictability and appearance of useful capabilities drives rapid development of such models, while the unpredictable qualities make it difficult to anticipate the consequences of model deployment. We go through examples of how this combination can lead to socially harmful behavior with examples from the literature and real world observations, and we also perform two novel experiments to illustrate our point about harms from unpredictability. Furthermore, we analyze how these conflicting properties combine to give model developers various motivations for deploying these models, and challenges that can hinder deployment. We conclude with a list of possible interventions the AI community may take to increase the chance of these models having a beneficial impact. We intend for this paper to be useful to policymakers who want to understand and regulate AI systems, technologists who care about the potential policy impact of their work, funders who want to support work addressing these challenges, and academics who want to analyze, critique, and potentially develop large generative models. With the widespread use of large artificial intelligence (AI) models such as ChatGPT, AI-generated content (AIGC) has garnered increasing attention and is leading a paradigm shift in content creation and knowledge representation. AIGC uses generative large AI algorithms to assist or replace humans in creating massive, high-quality, and human-like content at a faster pace and lower cost, based on user-provided prompts. Despite the recent significant progress in AIGC, security, privacy, ethical, and legal challenges still need to be addressed. This paper presents an in-depth survey of working principles, security and privacy threats, state-of-the-art solutions, and future challenges of the AIGC paradigm. Specifically, we first explore the enabling technologies, general architecture of AIGC, and discuss its working modes and key characteristics. Then, we investigate the taxonomy of security and privacy threats to AIGC and highlight the ethical and societal implications of GPT and AIGC technologies. Furthermore, we review the state-of-the-art AIGC watermarking approaches for regulatable AIGC paradigms regarding the AIGC model and its produced content. Finally, we identify future challenges and open research directions related to AIGC. The public release of Large Language Models (LLMs) has sparked tremendous interest in how humans will use Artificial Intelligence (AI) to accomplish a variety of tasks. In our study conducted with Boston Consulting Group, a global management consulting firm, we examine the performance implications of AI on realistic, complex, and knowledge-intensive tasks. The pre-registered experiment involved 758 consultants comprising about 7% of the individual contributor-level consultants at the company. After establishing a performance baseline on a similar task, subjects were randomly assigned to one of three conditions: no AI access, GPT-4 AI access, or GPT-4 AI access with a prompt engineering overview. We suggest that the capabilities of AI create a “jagged technological frontier” where some tasks are easily done by AI, while others, though seemingly similar in difficulty level, are outside the current capability of AI. For each one of a set of 18 realistic consulting tasks within the frontier of AI capabilities, consultants using AI were significantly more productive (they completed 12.2% more tasks on average, and completed tasks 25.1% more quickly), and produced significantly higher quality results (more than 40% higher quality compared to a control group). Consultants across the skills distribution benefited significantly from having AI augmentation, with those below the average performance threshold increasing by 43% and those above increasing by 17% compared to their own scores. For a task selected to be outside the frontier, however, consultants using AI were 19 percentage points less likely to produce correct solutions compared to those without AI. Further, our analysis shows the emergence of two distinctive patterns of successful AI use by humans along a spectrum of humanAI integration. One set of consultants acted as “Centaurs,” like the mythical halfhorse/half-human creature, dividing and delegating their solution-creation activities to the AI or to themselves. Another set of consultants acted more like “Cyborgs,” completely integrating their task flow with the AI and continually interacting with the technology. Objective: The objective of the article is to provide a comprehensive identification and understanding of the challenges and opportunities associated with the use of generative artificial intelligence (GAI) in business. This study sought to develop a conceptual framework that gathers the negative aspects of GAI development in management and economics, with a focus on ChatGPT. Research Design & Methods: The study employed a narrative and critical literature review and developed a conceptual framework based on prior literature. We used a line of deductive reasoning in formulating our theoretical framework to make the study’s overall structure rational and productive. Therefore, this article should be viewed as a conceptual article that highlights the controversies and threats of GAI in management and economics, with ChatGPT as a case study. Findings: Based on the conducted deep and extensive query of academic literature on the subject as well as professional press and Internet portals, we identified various controversies, threats, defects, and disadvantages of GAI, in particular ChatGPT. Next, we grouped the identified threats into clusters to summarize the seven main threats we see. In our opinion they are as follows: (i) no regulation of the AI market and urgent need for regulation, (ii) poor quality, lack of quality control, disinformation, deepfake content, algorithmic bias, (iii) automation-spurred job losses, (iv) personal data violation, social surveillance, and privacy violation, (v) social manipulation, weakening ethics and goodwill, (vi) widening socio-economic inequalities, and (vii) AI technostress. Implications & Recommendations: It is important to regulate the AI/GAI market. Advocating for the regulation of the AI market is crucial to ensure a level playing field, promote fair competition, protect intellectual property rights and privacy, and prevent potential geopolitical risks. The changing job market requires workers to continuously acquire new (digital) skills through education and retraining. As the training of AI systems becomes a prominent job category, it is important to adapt and take advantage of new opportunities. To mitigate the risks related to personal data violation, social surveillance, and privacy violation, GAI developers must prioritize ethical considerations and work to develop systems that prioritize user privacy and security. To avoid social manipulation and weaken ethics and goodwill, it is important to implement responsible AI practices and ethical guidelines: transparency in data usage, bias mitigation techniques, and monitoring of generated content for harmful or misleading information. Contribution & Value Added: This article may aid in bringing attention to the significance of resolving the ethical and legal considerations that arise from the use of GAI and ChatGPT by drawing attention to the contro-versies and hazards associated with these technologies. Large language models (LLMs) have shown remarkable performance in various tasks and have been extensively utilized by the public. However, the increasing concerns regarding the misuse of LLMs, such as plagiarism and spamming, have led to the development of multiple detectors, including fine-tuned classifiers and statistical methods. In this study, we equip LLMs with prompts, rather than relying on an external paraphraser, to evaluate the vulnerability of these detectors. We propose a novel Substitution-based In-Context example Optimization method (SICO) to automatically construct prompts for evading the detectors. SICO is cost-efficient as it requires only 40 human-written examples and a limited number of LLM inferences to generate a prompt. Moreover, once a task-specific prompt has been constructed, it can be universally used against a wide range of detectors. Extensive experiments across three real-world tasks demonstrate that SICO significantly outperforms the paraphraser baselines and enables GPT-3.5 to successfully evade six detectors, decreasing their AUC by 0.5 on average. Furthermore, a comprehensive human evaluation as well as a validation experiment in the wild show that the SICO-generated text achieves human-level readability and task completion rates. Finally, the strong performance of SICO exhibits its potential as a reliable evaluation tool for future detectors. The codes and data are located on https://github.com/ColinLu50/Evade-GPT-Detector. We present Muse, a text-to-image Transformer model that achieves state-of-the-art image generation performance while being significantly more efficient than diffusion or autoregressive models. Muse is trained on a masked modeling task in discrete token space: given the text embedding extracted from a pre-trained large language model (LLM), Muse is trained to predict randomly masked image tokens. Compared to pixel-space diffusion models, such as Imagen and DALL-E 2, Muse is significantly more efficient due to the use of discrete tokens and requiring fewer sampling iterations; compared to autoregressive models, such as Parti, Muse is more efficient due to the use of parallel decoding. The use of a pre-trained LLM enables fine-grained language understanding, translating to high-fidelity image generation and the understanding of visual concepts such as objects, their spatial relationships, pose, cardinality etc. Our 900M parameter model achieves a new SOTA on CC3M, with an FID score of 6.06. The Muse 3B parameter model achieves an FID of 7.88 on zero-shot COCO evaluation, along with a CLIP score of 0.32. Muse also directly enables a number of image editing applications without the need to fine-tune or invert the model: inpainting, outpainting, and mask-free editing. More results are available at https://muse-model.github.io Careful bias management and data fidelity are key Advances in artificial intelligence (AI), particularly large language models (LLMs), are substantially affecting social science research. These transformer-based machine-learning models pretrained on vast amounts of text data are increasingly capable of simulating human-like responses and behaviors (1, 2), offering opportunities to test theories and hypotheses about human behavior at great scale and speed. This presents urgent challenges: How can social science research practices be adapted, even reinvented, to harness the power of foundational AI? And how can this be done while ensuring transparent and replicable research? PurposeThe article discusses the current relevance of artificial intelligence (AI) in research and how AI improves various research methods. This article focuses on the practical case study of systematic literature reviews (SLRs) to provide a guideline for employing AI in the process.Design/methodology/approachResearchers no longer require technical skills to use AI in their research. The recent discussion about using Chat Generative Pre-trained Transformer (GPT), a chatbot by OpenAI, has reached the academic world and fueled heated debates about the future of academic research. Nevertheless, as the saying goes, AI will not replace our job; a human being using AI will. This editorial aims to provide an overview of the current state of using AI in research, highlighting recent trends and developments in the field.FindingsThe main result is guidelines for the use of AI in the scientific research process. The guidelines were developed for the literature review case but the authors believe the instructions provided can be adjusted to many fields of research, including but not limited to quantitative research, data qualification, research on unstructured data, qualitative data and even on many support functions and repetitive tasks.Originality/valueAI already has the potential to make researchers’ work faster, more reliable and more convenient. The authors highlight the advantages and limitations of AI in the current time, which should be present in any research utilizing AI. Advantages include objectivity and repeatability in research processes that currently are subject to human error. The most substantial disadvantages lie in the architecture of current general-purpose models, which understanding is essential for using them in research. The authors will describe the most critical shortcomings without going into technical detail and suggest how to work with the shortcomings daily. Text-based generative art has seen an explosion of interest in 2021. Online communities around text-based generative art as a novel digital medium have quickly emerged. This short paper identifies five types of prompt modifiers used by practitioners in the community of text-based generative art based on a 3-month ethnographic study on Twitter. The novel taxonomy of prompt modifiers provides researchers a conceptual starting point for investigating the practices of text-based generative art, but also may help practitioners of text-based generative art improve their images. The paper concludes with a discussion of research opportunities in the space of text-based generative art and the broader implications of prompt engineering from the perspective of human-AI interaction in future applications beyond the use case of text-based generative art. Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback (RLHF) has been demonstrated to significantly enhance the performance of large language models (LLMs) by aligning their outputs with desired human values through instruction tuning. However, RLHF is constrained by the expertise and productivity limitations of human evaluators. A response to this downside is to fall back to supervised fine-tuning (SFT) with additional carefully selected expert demonstrations. However, while this method has been proven to be effective, it invariably also leads to increased human-in-the-loop overhead. In this study, we propose another alternative approach: Reinforcement Learning with Generative Adversarial Feedback (RLGAF) to RLHF and SFT, which uses a generative adversarial training style to enable the LLMs to learn useful human expert demonstrations without being directly exposed to the training examples, thus enabling good generalization capabilities while preserving sample efficiency. Our preliminary findings indicate that RLGAF can help align LLMs outputs with competitive performance against RLHF and SFT, while not suffering from their respective inherent restrictions, suggesting promising avenues for further research on automating AI alignment. Reinforcement Learning with Human Feed-back (RLHF) has been demonstrated to significantly enhance the performance of large language models (LLMs) by aligning their outputs with desired human values through instruction tuning. However, RLHF is constrained by the expertise and productivity limitations of human evaluators. A response to this downside is to fall back to supervised fine-tuning (SFT) with additional carefully selected expert demonstrations. However, while this method has been proven to be effective, it invariably also leads to increased human-in-the-loop overhead. In this study, we propose another alternative approach: Reinforcement Learning with Generative Adversarial Feed-back (RLGAF) to RLHF and SFT, which uses a generative adversarial training style to enable the LLMs to learn useful human expert demonstrations without being directly exposed to the training examples, thus enabling good generalization capabilities while preserving sample efficiency. Our preliminary findings indicate that RLGAF can help align LLMs outputs with competitive performance against RLHF and SFT, while not suffering from their respective inherent restrictions, suggesting promising avenues for further research on automating AI alignment. Generative Language Models gained significant attention in late 2022 / early 2023, notably with the introduction of models refined to act consistently with users' expectations of interactions with AI (conversational models). Arguably the focal point of public attention has been such a refinement of the GPT3 model -- the ChatGPT and its subsequent integration with auxiliary capabilities, including search as part of Microsoft Bing. Despite extensive prior research invested in their development, their performance and applicability to a range of daily tasks remained unclear and niche. However, their wider utilization without a requirement for technical expertise, made in large part possible through conversational fine-tuning, revealed the extent of their true capabilities in a real-world environment. This has garnered both public excitement for their potential applications and concerns about their capabilities and potential malicious uses. This review aims to provide a brief overview of the history, state of the art, and implications of Generative Language Models in terms of their principles, abilities, limitations, and future prospects -- especially in the context of cyber-defense, with a focus on the Swiss operational environment. We performed a billion locality sensitive hash comparisons between artificially generated data samples to answer the critical question - can we reproduce the results of generative AI models? Reproducibility is one of the pillars of scientific research for verifiability, benchmarking, trust, and transparency. Futhermore, we take this research to the next level by verifying the"correctness"of generative AI output in a non-deterministic, trustless, decentralized network. We generate millions of data samples from a variety of open source diffusion and large language models and describe the procedures and trade-offs between generating more verses less deterministic output. Additionally, we analyze the outputs to provide empirical evidence of different parameterizations of tolerance and error bounds for verification. For our results, we show that with a majority vote between three independent verifiers, we can detect image generated perceptual collisions in generated AI with over 99.89% probability and less than 0.0267% chance of intra-class collision. For large language models (LLMs), we are able to gain 100% consensus using greedy methods or n-way beam searches to generate consensus demonstrated on different LLMs. In the context of generative AI training, we pinpoint and minimize the major sources of stochasticity and present gossip and synchronization training techniques for verifiability. Thus, this work provides a practical, solid foundation for AI verification, reproducibility, and consensus for generative AI applications. Numerous artificial intelligence (AI) approaches, such as generative AI (GAI), large language models (LLM) and text-to-image networks, necessitate spatial intelligence for effective operation. Yet, a prevailing ideology embedded in contemporary solutions is their inclination to strictly adhere to a data-driven approach when addressing spatial learning. This viewpoint leads to opaque solutions, aka "black boxes", and it presupposes that the intricacies of spatial reasoning will effortlessly surface as an inherent byproduct of extensive data exposure. This simplistic reliance on data overlooks the wealth of established psychology and mathematics governing spatial relations and their inherent uncertainties. In this article, we delve into neural networks and learning strategies for incorporating well-established spatial relations mathematics into an effective and explainable GAI. Specifically, we showcase how to translate abstract concepts, expressed as sets of spatial relations, into visual imagery. This resulting imagery can be immediately used or passed on as a spatial prior to a larger and more sophisticated GAI. We present two synthetic use cases wherein spatial concepts materialize as intricate arrangements of multi-part colored geometric primitives, undergoing a spectrum of diverse planar affine transformations. Our exploration is categorized into two dimensions: discerning spatial placements (aka the "where") and shape depiction (aka the "what"). Overall, we’ve noted a strength in our proposed neural networks in discerning spatial placements. However, while our nets also exhibit a competence in determining "what" to depict, we recognize the necessity for additional fine-tuning to achieving visual imagery consistent with state-of-the-art works like DALL-E and stable diffusion. A recent editorial discussed the use of generative artificial intelligence (AI) approaches in the management of wounds. As a researcher in the field of wounds, the author provided some insight into how such systems could benefit researchers in this space. The use of such approaches in communities of practice was discussed, providing some of the benefits of this type of approach to researchers. Generative AI can help researchers understand complexity and provide “accurate” summaries of data and outcomes. It can help provide summaries of individual and multiple studies, helping researchers not only understand the content but also provide the outputs to educate others. These communities of practice can also potentially use generative processes to begin drafting manuscripts, this is the automation of the current research processes today. But more study is required to explore the legal and ethical ramifications of the use of generative systems in peer science, as well as training the logic models to provide peer-validated outcomes. The editorial mentioned that this was not too far in the future, but do you realise it exists today? Such approaches sum up my field of research for the past few decades, where we worked on the proposed delivery of a personalised information directory for YellowPages Canada (YPG), called YellowSpace. YPG was dropping a 1-kg phone book on everyone's doorstep. Why not have a personalised digital version of their phonebook for all YellowPages users and businesses across Canada? This approach is more practical and environmentally friendly. The purpose of YellowSpace was to improve user engagement with the directory listings through behavioural content targeting, providing a unique, personalised view of their national directory for every user across Canada based on their personal preferences and “word of mouth” (family and friends) business logic. We augmented the directory results by grouping the behavioural actions of close friends and family to make recommendations for food, accommodation, travel, entertainment, and basically anything found in the YellowPages directory. Then, watching the resulting engagement and adjusting the directory recommendations through the user's life cycle. This would dramatically lower search times for relevant listings and increase directory revenue, all while offering a vastly improved user experience with a personalised view of a massive national directory. From this experience, we have been working on designing and building a software platform to create online communities of practice, where their management is driven by proprietary machine learning/artificial intelligence processes. This approach generatively creates online communities from vast pools of external data and content, providing controlled content surfacing and ML/AI process personalization through analytics, user input, and engagement. This personalisation provides a unique experience for every member of the community, tailoring what they see with each interaction. Quickly building and populating peer research communities with validated research papers, which are personalised for each viewer's profile, reduces search time and increases engagement. The community is driven by generative “large language models” (LLM), custom data models, and ML/AI processes to improve the validation and surfacing of appropriate research content, providing an overall personal user experience. A smart generative feed analyzes the community and its needs and adjusts the content feed to reflect the community profile. Further personalisation can occur through member interaction with content. Based on a community member's profile and area of research focus, the generative process creates clusters of appropriate content and returns results for review; each cluster is presented with a generative abstract. While this personalisation is generative, it can be controlled by the member. Imagine a virtual world that knows your likes and dislikes related to your research and presents only what is of interest to you. Received: 29 May 2023 Accepted: 29 May 2023 This column examines the current state of generative artificial intelligence (AI), emphasizing the importance of generative AI built on large language models (LLM). This is a foundational emerging technology, which has the potential to impact a broad range of other technologies. This is the first in a two-part series that together will provide a framework, to help information professionals understand the technology and anticipate future developments. This framework includes the following observations: future applications are unpredictable, interdependent, and will require flexibility, AI’s ability to create the feeling of intelligence combined with the power of language are key to understanding its future, the technology is not neutral, it has biases and significant limitations, its widespread adoption will come with tradeoffs that matter, and finally I argue that libraries should develop a positive vision for how to use it. This column will examine previous column topics through the lens of generative text AI to illustrate the scope of generative text-based AI’s potential impact. This will lay the foundation for the next column, which will trade breadth for depth and focus on the nuances of search. Large language models (LLMs), such as OpenAI’s GPT-3 and its successor ChatGPT, have exhibited astounding successes—as well as curious failures—in several areas of artificial intelligence. While their abilities in generating humanlike text, solving mathematical problems, writing computer code, and reasoning about the world have been widely documented, the mechanisms underlying both the successes and failures of these systems remain mysterious, even to the researchers who created them. In spite of the current lack of understanding of how these systems do what they do, LLMs are on the cusp of being widely deployed as components of search engines, writing tools, and other commercial products, and are likely to have substantial impact on all of our lives. Even more profoundly, their surprising abilities may change our conception of the nature of intelligence itself. In PNAS, Binz and Schulz (1) point out the “urgency to improve our understanding of how [these systems] learn and make decisions.” A standard way to evaluate systems trained by machine-learning methods is to test their accuracy on human-created benchmarks. By this metric, GPT-3 and other LLMs are close to (or above) human level on many tasks (2–4). However, an AI system matching human performance on such benchmarks has rarely translated into that system having human-level performance more broadly; many popular benchmarks have been shown to contain subtle “spurious” correlations that allow systems to “be right for the wrong reasons” (5) and straightforward accuracy metrics do not necessarily predict robust generalization (6). Binz and Schulz’s article argues that instead of relying solely on such performance-based benchmarks, researchers should apply methods from cognitive psychology to gain insights into LLMs. The core idea is to “treat GPT-3 as a participant in a psychology experiment,” in order to tease out the system’s mechanisms of decision-making, reasoning, cognitive biases, and other important psychological traits. If this approach could be shown to produce deep understanding of LLMs it could cause a “sea change” in the way AI systems are evaluated and understood. Binz and Schulz have taken an admirable first step toward establishing the value of such an approach, although it would have been better had they been able to use their results to understand why GPT-3 succeeded and failed when it did. That their project fell short of this goal is understandable: Behavioral scientists have spent over a 100 y using such experiments to understand how humans carry out these tasks and still have a long way to go. Binz and Schulz carried out two sets of experiments. In the first set, they gave GPT-3 prompts consisting of “vignettes” from the psychology literature that have been used to assess reasoning with probabilities, intuitive versus deliberative reasoning, causal reasoning, and other cognitive attributes. Each vignette asks the reader to choose from a small set of options. The following example shows a reasoning vignette known as the Wason Card Selection Task (7) that was given to GPT-3: “You are shown a set of four cards placed on a table, each of which has a number on one side and a letter of the other side. The visible faces of the cards show A, K, 4, 7. Q: Which cards must you turn over in order to test the truth of the proposition that if a card shows a vowel on one face then its opposite face shows an even number?” The answer supplied by GPT-3 was: “The A and the 7”. (A correct response). Of the 12 vignettes Binz and Schulz gave to GPT-3, the system responded with the correct answer on six of them, and GPT-3’s six incorrect responses were errors that humans also tend to make. What is to be made of what seems to be a correspondence? Binz and Schulz admit and show GPT-3’s answers are strongly context dependent: In the above vignette a change in the order of the four cards to 4, 7, A, K led to a different answer “The A and the K.” Humans can also be context-dependent, but perhaps not in the same ways. Nonetheless, it may be that such results show a correspondence between AI systems and humans. Humans experience and store vast numbers of experiences, building knowledge on their basis (8); AI systems are exposed to vast numbers of instances (text tokens in the case of GPT-3) and build a representation on their basis. Perhaps both take advantage of the correlation structure of these instances and events. Whatever truth there may be in such an analogy, it seems unlikely that GPT-3 uses the kinds of explicit reasoning strategies that some humans use in these tasks. For example, to unpack the vignette in the above figure, humans given time and motivation might attempt to use explicit reasoning, logic, and mental simulations, perhaps trying out different choices to see what information they might provide. This generally involves manipulating information in working memory. Working memory is not part of GPT-3. Yet it is possible that the contents of working memory reflect what has been stored in long-term memory—after all when reading a problem or instructions the first step in generating contents of working memory will be retrieval from long-term memory (8). Whatever one tries to infer from their results, Binz and Schulz note some additional caveats. First, the vignettes, as well as the correct (and human-generated incorrect) responses used in these experiments, are all from wellknown psychology studies, and are likely to have been Models can convey biases and false information to users Individual humans form their beliefs by sampling a small subset of the available data in the world. Once those beliefs are formed with high certainty, they can become stubborn to revise. Fabrication and bias in generative artificial intelligence (AI) models are established phenomena that can occur as part of regular system use, in the absence of any malevolent forces seeking to push bias or disinformation. However, transmission of false information and bias from these models to people has been prominently absent from the discourse. Overhyped, unrealistic, and exaggerated capabilities permeate how generative AI models are presented, which contributes to the popular misconception that these models exceed human-level reasoning and exacerbates the risk of transmission of false information and negative stereotypes to people. The last 3 years have resulted in machine learning (ML)-based image generators with the ability to output consistently higher quality images based on natural language prompts as inputs. As a result, many popular commercial “generative AI Art” products have entered the market, making generative AI an estimated $48B industry [125]. However, many professional artists have spoken up about the harms they have experienced due to the proliferation of large scale image generators trained on image/text pairs from the Internet. In this paper, we review some of these harms which include reputational damage, economic loss, plagiarism and copyright infringement. To guard against these issues while reaping the potential benefits of image generators, we provide recommendations such as regulation that forces organizations to disclose their training data, and tools that help artists prevent using their content as training data without their consent. A generative AI model can generate extremely realistic-looking content, posing growing challenges to the authenticity of information. To address the challenges, watermark has been leveraged to detect AI-generated content. Specifically, a watermark is embedded into an AI-generated content before it is released. A content is detected as AI-generated if a similar watermark can be decoded from it. In this work, we perform a systematic study on the robustness of such watermark-based AI-generated content detection. We focus on AI-generated images. Our work shows that an attacker can post-process a watermarked image via adding a small, human-imperceptible perturbation to it, such that the post-processed image evades detection while maintaining its visual quality. We show the effectiveness of our attack both theoretically and empirically. Moreover, to evade detection, our adversarial post-processing method adds much smaller perturbations to AI-generated images and thus better maintain their visual quality than existing popular post-processing methods such as JPEG compression, Gaussian blur, and Brightness/Contrast. Our work shows the insufficiency of existing watermark-based detection of AI-generated content, highlighting the urgent needs of new methods. Our code is publicly available: https://github.com/zhengyuan-jiang/WEvade. Recent advances in Machine-Learning have led to the development of models that generate images based on a text description.Such large prompt-based text to image models (TTIs), trained on a considerable amount of data, allow the creation of high-quality images by users with no graphics or design training. This paper examines the role such TTI models can playin collaborative, goal-oriented design. Through a within-subjects study with 14 non-professional designers, we find that such models can help participants explore a design space rapidly and allow for fluid collaboration. We also find that text inputs to such models ("prompts") act as reflective design material, facilitating exploration, iteration, and reflection in pair design. This work contributes to the future of collaborative design supported by generative AI by providing an account of how text-to-image models influence the design process and the social dynamics around design and suggesting implications for tool design ABSTRACT Background As generative artificial intelligence (AI), ChatGPT provides easy access to a wide range of information, including factual knowledge in the field of medicine. Given that knowledge acquisition is a basic determinant of physicians’ performance, teaching and testing different levels of medical knowledge is a central task of medical schools. To measure the factual knowledge level of the ChatGPT responses, we compared the performance of ChatGPT with that of medical students in a progress test. Methods A total of 400 multiple-choice questions (MCQs) from the progress test in German-speaking countries were entered into ChatGPT’s user interface to obtain the percentage of correctly answered questions. We calculated the correlations of the correctness of ChatGPT responses with behavior in terms of response time, word count, and difficulty of a progress test question. Results Of the 395 responses evaluated, 65.5% of the progress test questions answered by ChatGPT were correct. On average, ChatGPT required 22.8 s (SD 17.5) for a complete response, containing 36.2 (SD 28.1) words. There was no correlation between the time used and word count with the accuracy of the ChatGPT response (correlation coefficient for time rho = −0.08, 95% CI [−0.18, 0.02], t(393) = −1.55, p = 0.121; for word count rho = −0.03, 95% CI [−0.13, 0.07], t(393) = −0.54, p = 0.592). There was a significant correlation between the difficulty index of the MCQs and the accuracy of the ChatGPT response (correlation coefficient for difficulty: rho = 0.16, 95% CI [0.06, 0.25], t(393) = 3.19, p = 0.002). Conclusion ChatGPT was able to correctly answer two-thirds of all MCQs at the German state licensing exam level in Progress Test Medicine and outperformed almost all medical students in years 1–3. The ChatGPT answers can be compared with the performance of medical students in the second half of their studies. Large language models (LLMs) exhibit impressive capabilities in generating realistic text across diverse subjects. Concerns have been raised that they could be utilized to produce fake content with a deceptive intention, although evidence thus far remains anecdotal. This paper presents a case study about a Twitter botnet that appears to employ ChatGPT to generate human-like content. Through heuristics, we identify 1,140 accounts and validate them via manual annotation. These accounts form a dense cluster of fake personas that exhibit similar behaviors, including posting machine-generated content and stolen images, and engage with each other through replies and retweets. ChatGPT-generated content promotes suspicious websites and spreads harmful comments. While the accounts in the AI botnet can be detected through their coordination patterns, current state-of-the-art LLM content classifiers fail to discriminate between them and human accounts in the wild. These findings highlight the threats posed by AI-enabled social bots. Users of augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) devices sometimes find it difficult to communicate in real time with others due to the time it takes to compose messages. AI technologies such as large language models (LLMs) provide an opportunity to support AAC users by improving the quality and variety of text suggestions. However, these technologies may fundamentally change how users interact with AAC devices as users transition from typing their own phrases to prompting and selecting AI-generated phrases. We conducted a study in which 12 AAC users tested live suggestions from a language model across three usage scenarios: extending short replies, answering biographical questions, and requesting assistance. Our study participants believed that AI-generated phrases could save time, physical and cognitive effort when communicating, but felt it was important that these phrases reflect their own communication style and preferences. This work identifies opportunities and challenges for future AI-enhanced AAC devices. Within the current 6G and beyond 5G research, digital twins have become an indispensable asset for network management. These digital twins offer real-time and dynamic system representations, enabling precise decision-making and comprehensive testing in simulation environments before deployment. Going further, we introduce the novel concept of “Generative Twin”, an approach enabling the automatic generation system configurations and test system situations using Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) and surpassing the limitations of human administrators. Our work reaches further, presenting a high-level architecture that outlines the additional functional elements and interfaces required to enhance the digital twins for 5G networks. We also demonstrate a mock-up simulation of information generation using the Large Language Model (LLM) ChatGPT and a best-practices digital twin based on the Open5GCore toolkit. Furthermore, we present a practical implementation roadmap, offering guidance for effective integration of generative twins and the technology challenges that necessitate further research, highlighting the very large potential of leveraging generative AI as an integral part of network management. Most recent models for Arabic topic classification leveraged fine-tuning existing pre-trained transformer models and targeted a limited number of categories. More recently, advances in automated ML and generative models introduced novel potentials for the task. While these approaches work for English, it is a question of whether they perform well for low-resourced languages; Arabic in particular. This paper presents (i) ArBoNeClass; a novel Arabic dataset with an extended 14-topic class set covering modern books from social sciences and humanities along with newspaper articles, and (ii) a set of topic classifiers built from it. We finetuned an open LLM model to build ArGTClass. We compared its performance against the best models built with Vertex AI (Google), AutoML(H2O), and AutoTrain(HuggingFace). ArGTClass outperformed the VertexAi and AutoML models and was reasonably similar to the AutoTrain model. The rapid evolution of artificial intelligence (AI) technologies has brought a new era in health care, offering innovative solutions for various medical disciplines, including diabetes care. This viewpoint article aimed to elucidate the transformative potential of Chat Generative Pre-trained Transformer (ChatGPT), a large language model (LLM), in augmenting diabetes care. We traverse through the historical evolution of AI, delineating its trajectory from conceptual origins to contemporary advancements. Central to our discussion is the exploration of ChatGPT's capabilities in fostering enhanced patient engagement, personalized medical guidance, and streamlined health-care workflows. Through a comprehensive review, we underscore ChatGPT as a pivotal technology, focused to revolutionize traditional paradigms in diabetes management and patient care. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the literature concerning the utilization of Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques, with a particular focus on transformer-based large language models (LLMs) trained using Big Code, within the domain of AI-assisted programming tasks. LLMs, augmented with software naturalness, have played a crucial role in facilitating AI-assisted programming applications, including code generation, code completion, code translation, code refinement, code summarization, defect detection, and clone detection. Notable examples of such applications include the GitHub Copilot powered by OpenAI’s Codex and DeepMind AlphaCode. This paper presents an overview of the major LLMs and their applications in downstream tasks related to AI-assisted programming. Furthermore, it explores the challenges and opportunities associated with incorporating NLP techniques with software naturalness in these applications, with a discussion on extending AI-assisted programming capabilities to Apple’s Xcode for mobile software development. This paper also presents the challenges of and opportunities for incorporating NLP techniques with software naturalness, empowering developers with advanced coding assistance and streamlining the software development process. ABSTRACT Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, demonstrate a strong understanding of human natural language and have been explored and applied in various fields, including reasoning, creative writing, code generation, translation, and information retrieval. By adopting LLM as the reasoning core, we introduce Autonomous GIS as an AI-powered geographic information system (GIS) that leverages the LLM's general abilities in natural language understanding, reasoning, and coding for addressing spatial problems with automatic spatial data collection, analysis, and visualization. We envision that autonomous GIS will need to achieve five autonomous goals: self-generating, self-organizing, self-verifying, self-executing, and self-growing. We developed a prototype system called LLM-Geo using the GPT-4 API, demonstrating what an autonomous GIS looks like and how it delivers expected results without human intervention using three case studies. For all case studies, LLM-Geo returned accurate results, including aggregated numbers, graphs, and maps.. Although still in its infancy and lacking several important modules such as logging and code testing, LLM-Geo demonstrates a potential path toward the next-generation AI-powered GIS. We advocate for the GIScience community to devote more efforts to the research and development of autonomous GIS, making spatial analysis easier, faster, and more accessible to a broader audience. Recommender models excel at providing domain-specific item recommendations by leveraging extensive user behavior data. Despite their ability to act as lightweight domain experts, they struggle to perform versatile tasks such as providing explanations and engaging in conversations. On the other hand, large language models (LLMs) represent a significant step towards artificial general intelligence, showcasing remarkable capabilities in instruction comprehension, commonsense reasoning, and human interaction. However, LLMs lack the knowledge of domain-specific item catalogs and behavioral patterns, particularly in areas that diverge from general world knowledge, such as online e-commerce. Finetuning LLMs for each domain is neither economic nor efficient. In this paper, we bridge the gap between recommender models and LLMs, combining their respective strengths to create a versatile and interactive recommender system. We introduce an efficient framework called \textbf{InteRecAgent}, which employs LLMs as the brain and recommender models as tools. We first outline a minimal set of essential tools required to transform LLMs into InteRecAgent. We then propose an efficient workflow within InteRecAgent for task execution, incorporating key components such as memory components, dynamic demonstration-augmented task planning, and reflection. InteRecAgent enables traditional recommender systems, such as those ID-based matrix factorization models, to become interactive systems with a natural language interface through the integration of LLMs. Experimental results on several public datasets show that InteRecAgent achieves satisfying performance as a conversational recommender system, outperforming general-purpose LLMs. The source code of InteRecAgent is released at https://aka.ms/recagent. Prompting Large Language Models (LLMs) is an exciting new approach to designing chatbots. But can it improve LLM’s user experience (UX) reliably enough to power chatbot products? Our attempt to design a robust chatbot by prompting GPT-3/4 alone suggests: not yet. Prompts made achieving “80%” UX goals easy, but not the remaining 20%. Fixing the few remaining interaction breakdowns resembled herding cats: We could not address one UX issue or test one design solution at a time; instead, we had to handle everything everywhere all at once. Moreover, because no prompt could make GPT reliably say “I don’t know” when it should, the user-GPT conversations had no guardrails after a breakdown occurred, often leading to UX downward spirals. These risks incentivized us to design highly prescriptive prompts and scripted bots, counter to the promises of LLM-powered chatbots. This paper describes this case study, unpacks prompting’s fickleness and its impact on UX design processes, and discusses implications for LLM-based design methods and tools. Large-scale generative models enabled the development of AI-powered code completion tools to assist programmers in writing code. However, much like other AI-powered tools, AI-powered code completions are not always accurate, potentially introducing bugs or even security vulnerabilities into code if not properly detected and corrected by a human programmer. One technique that has been proposed and implemented to help programmers identify potential errors is to highlight uncertain tokens. However, there have been no empirical studies exploring the effectiveness of this technique-- nor investigating the different and not-yet-agreed-upon notions of uncertainty in the context of generative models. We explore the question of whether conveying information about uncertainty enables programmers to more quickly and accurately produce code when collaborating with an AI-powered code completion tool, and if so, what measure of uncertainty best fits programmers' needs. Through a mixed-methods study with 30 programmers, we compare three conditions: providing the AI system's code completion alone, highlighting tokens with the lowest likelihood of being generated by the underlying generative model, and highlighting tokens with the highest predicted likelihood of being edited by a programmer. We find that highlighting tokens with the highest predicted likelihood of being edited leads to faster task completion and more targeted edits, and is subjectively preferred by study participants. In contrast, highlighting tokens according to their probability of being generated does not provide any benefit over the baseline with no highlighting. We further explore the design space of how to convey uncertainty in AI-powered code completion tools, and find that programmers prefer highlights that are granular, informative, interpretable, and not overwhelming. Description Many ask authors to disclose use of ChatGPT and other generative artificial intelligence Many ask authors to disclose use of ChatGPT and other generative artificial intelligence Large language models (LMs) offer unprecedented language generation capabilities and exciting opportunities for interaction design. However, their highly context-dependent capabilities are difficult to grasp and are often subjectively interpreted. In this paper, we argue that by curating and analyzing large interaction datasets, the HCI community can foster more incisive examinations of LMs’ generative capabilities. Exemplifying this approach, we present CoAuthor, a dataset designed for revealing GPT-3’s capabilities in assisting creative and argumentative writing. CoAuthor captures rich interactions between 63 writers and four instances of GPT-3 across 1445 writing sessions. We demonstrate that CoAuthor can address questions about GPT-3’s language, ideation, and collaboration capabilities, and reveal its contribution as a writing “collaborator” under various definitions of good collaboration. Finally, we discuss how this work may facilitate a more principled discussion around LMs’ promises and pitfalls in relation to interaction design. The dataset and an interface for replaying the writing sessions are publicly available at https://coauthor.stanford.edu. Background: The 6G network provides on-demand services and efficient governance, which is an important capability of the 6G network in the future. Providing more flexibility, availability, and dynamicity in services and network function enablement face many challenges in the 6G network due to the system complexity. To fulfill the requirement of the new generation of a digital and intelligent network, the 6G architecture with digital twin as a new enabler technology, is expected to evolve in the network autonomy and generative intelligence properties, which could optimize and adapt the network and services themselves to a variety of scenarios and deployments. Methods: To achieve 6G network autonomy and generative intelligence, we propose an architecture based on digital twin technology. This architecture integrates the digital twin network with the minimalist network and supports single-domain autonomous and cross-domain collaboration via centralized-distributed digital twin deployment, and defines the interactions between the digital twin and the service layer as well as the physical network. Results: Based on the analysis of the architecture, we put forward the following design principles for the 6G digital twin network architecture: decoupling, interactions, endogenous AI, distribution, heterogeneity, autonomous, and closed-loop. In addition, we get the key technologies achieving collaboration efficiently between the network autonomy domain and generative intelligence domain in the distributed digital twin system. Important application directions of the 6G digital twin network architecture are also analyzed. Conclusions: In this paper, the new digital-twin-enabled 6G architecture and 6G digital twin network architecture design principles are proposed. The key technologies and important application of digital-twin-enabled 6G architecture are provided. 
 Biological systems in nature have evolved for millions of years to adapt and survive the environment. Many features they developed can be inspirational and beneficial for solving technical problems in modern industries. This leads to a specific form of design-by-analogy called bio-inspired design (BID). Although BID as a design method has been proven beneficial, the gap between biology and engineering continuously hinders designers from effectively applying the method. Therefore, we explore the recent advance of artificial intelligence (AI) for a data-driven approach to bridge the gap. This paper proposes a generative design approach based on the pre-trained language model (PLM) to automatically retrieve and map biological analogy and generate BID in the form of natural language. The latest generative pre-trained transformer, namely GPT-3, is used as the base PLM. Three types of design concept generators are identified and fine-tuned from the PLM according to the looseness of the problem space representation. Machine evaluators are also fine-tuned to assess the mapping relevancy between the domains within the generated BID concepts. The approach is evaluated and then employed in a real-world project of designing light-weighted flying cars during its conceptual design phase The results show our approach can generate BID concepts with good performance. 
 Generating novel and useful concepts is essential during the early design stage to explore a large variety of design opportunities, which usually requires advanced design thinking ability and a wide range of knowledge from designers. Growing works on computer-aided tools have explored the retrieval of knowledge and heuristics from design data. However, they only provide stimuli to inspire designers from limited aspects. This study explores the recent advance of the natural language generation (NLG) technique in the artificial intelligence (AI) field to automate the early-stage design concept generation. Specifically, a novel approach utilizing the generative pre-trained transformer (GPT) is proposed to leverage the knowledge and reasoning from textual data and transform them into new concepts in understandable language. Three concept generation tasks are defined to leverage different knowledge and reasoning: domain knowledge synthesis, problem-driven synthesis, and analogy-driven synthesis. The experiments with both human and data-driven evaluation show good performance in generating novel and useful concepts. The use of AI and machine learning models in the industry is rapidly increasing. Because of this growth and the noticeable performance of these models, more mission-critical decision-making intelligent systems have been developed. Despite their success, when used for decision-making, AI solutions have a significant drawback: transparency. The lack of transparency behind their behaviors, particularly in complex state-of-the-art machine learning algorithms, leaves users with little understanding of how these models make specific decisions. To address this issue, algorithms such as LIME and SHAP (Kernel SHAP) have been introduced. These algorithms aim to explain AI models by generating data samples around an intended test instance by perturbing the various features. This process has the drawback of potentially generating invalid data points outside of the data domain. In this paper, we aim to improve LIME and SHAP by using a pre-trained Variational AutoEncoder (VAE) on the training dataset to generate realistic data around the test instance. We also employ a sensitivity feature importance with Boltzmann distribution to aid in explaining the behavior of the black-box model surrounding the intended test instance. The evolution of artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) has led to the development of sophisticated large language models (LLMs) that are used extensively in applications such as chatbots. This research investigates the critical issues of data protection and privacy enhancement in the context of LLM-based chatbots, with a focus on OpenAI's ChatGPT. It explores the dual challenges of safeguarding sensitive user information while ensuring the efficiency of machine learning models. It assesses existing privacy-enhancing technologies (PETs) and proposes innovative methods, such as differential privacy, federated learning, and data minimization techniques. The study also includes a survey of Chatbot users to measure their concerns related to data privacy with the use of these LLM-based applications. This study is meant to serve as a comprehensive guide for developers, policymakers, and researchers, contributing to the discourse on data protection in artificial intelligence. The demand for psychological counselling has grown significantly in recent years, particularly with the global outbreak of COVID-19, which has heightened the need for timely and professional mental health support. Online psychological counselling has emerged as the predominant mode of providing services in response to this demand. In this study, we propose the Psy-LLM framework, an AI-based assistive tool leveraging Large Language Models (LLMs) for question-answering in psychological consultation settings to ease the demand for mental health professions. Our framework combines pre-trained LLMs with real-world professional Q\&A from psychologists and extensively crawled psychological articles. The Psy-LLM framework serves as a front-end tool for healthcare professionals, allowing them to provide immediate responses and mindfulness activities to alleviate patient stress. Additionally, it functions as a screening tool to identify urgent cases requiring further assistance. We evaluated the framework using intrinsic metrics, such as perplexity, and extrinsic evaluation metrics, with human participant assessments of response helpfulness, fluency, relevance, and logic. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the Psy-LLM framework in generating coherent and relevant answers to psychological questions. This article discusses the potential and limitations of using large language models to enhance mental health support through AI technologies. The recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs), particularly conversational LLMs like ChatGPT, have prompted changes in a range of fields, including design. This study aims to examine the capabilities of ChatGPT in a human-centered design process. To this end, a hypothetical design project was conducted, where ChatGPT was utilized to generate personas, simulate interviews with fictional users, create new design ideas, simulate usage scenarios and conversations between an imaginary prototype and fictional users, and lastly evaluate user experience. The results show that ChatGPT effectively performed the tasks assigned to it as a designer, user, or product, providing mostly appropriate responses. The study does, however, highlight some drawbacks such as forgotten information, partial responses, and a lack of output diversity. The paper explains the potential benefits and limitations of using conversational LLMs in design, discusses its implications, and suggests directions for future research in this rapidly evolving area. With their remarkable ability to generate code, large language models (LLMs) are a transformative technology for computing education practice. They have created an urgent need for educators to rethink pedagogical approaches and teaching strategies for newly emerging skill sets. Traditional approaches to learning programming have focused on frequent and repeated practice at writing code. The ease with which code can now be generated has resulted in a shift in focus towards reading, understanding and evaluating LLM-generated code. In parallel with this shift, a new essential skill is emerging -- the ability to construct good prompts for code-generating models. This paper introduces a novel pedagogical concept known as a `Prompt Problem', designed to help students learn how to craft effective prompts for LLMs. A Prompt Problem challenges a student to create a natural language prompt that leads an LLM to produce the correct code for a specific problem. To support the delivery of Prompt Problems at scale, in this paper we also present a novel tool called Promptly which hosts a repository of Prompt Problems and automates the evaluation of prompt-generated code. We report empirical findings from a field study in which Promptly was deployed in a first-year Python programming course (n=54). We explore student interactions with the tool and their perceptions of the Prompt Problem concept. We found that Promptly was largely well-received by students for its ability to engage their computational thinking skills and expose them to new programming constructs. We also discuss avenues for future work, including variations on the design of Prompt Problems and the need to study their integration into the curriculum and teaching practice. A recurring challenge of crowdsourcing NLP datasets at scale is that human writers often rely on repetitive patterns when crafting examples, leading to a lack of linguistic diversity. We introduce a novel approach for dataset creation based on worker and AI collaboration, which brings together the generative strength of language models and the evaluative strength of humans. Starting with an existing dataset, MultiNLI for natural language inference (NLI), our approach uses dataset cartography to automatically identify examples that demonstrate challenging reasoning patterns, and instructs GPT-3 to compose new examples with similar patterns. Machine generated examples are then automatically filtered, and finally revised and labeled by human crowdworkers. The resulting dataset, WANLI, consists of 107,885 NLI examples and presents unique empirical strengths over existing NLI datasets. Remarkably, training a model on WANLI improves performance on eight out-of-domain test sets we consider, including by 11% on HANS and 9% on Adversarial NLI, compared to training on the 4x larger MultiNLI. Moreover, it continues to be more effective than MultiNLI augmented with other NLI datasets. Our results demonstrate the promise of leveraging natural language generation techniques and re-imagining the role of humans in the dataset creation process. ChatGPT 1 and GPT-4 [1] are the most popular topics in the past 4 months, and it is changing our work and life fundamentally. The surprisingly emerged capabilities of large language model (LLM) indicate that AGI is much closer than we thought. However, due to the extreme requirement in computing resources and data availability, only a few biggest firms can afford developing the technology. This centrailized and closed AI power isn’t sustainable and could be harmful to the society. Therefore, we explored the idea of reimplement a minimum version of ChatGPT to answer the following questions: Can we align smaller models to also behavior reasonably in a dialogue similar with large language model such as GPT-3 175B? We have implemented a fully functioning RLHF training in PyTorch on top of GPT2. The code is available to public on GitHub: https://github.com/ethanyanjiali/minChatGPT Background: Recently, ChatGPT and similar generative AI models have attracted hundreds of millions of users and become part of the public discourse. Many believe that such models will disrupt society and will result in a significant change in the education system and information generation in the future. So far, this belief is based on either colloquial evidence or benchmarks from the owners of the models -- both lack scientific rigour. Objective: Through a large-scale study comparing human-written versus ChatGPT-generated argumentative student essays, we systematically assess the quality of the AI-generated content. Methods: A large corpus of essays was rated using standard criteria by a large number of human experts (teachers). We augment the analysis with a consideration of the linguistic characteristics of the generated essays. Results: Our results demonstrate that ChatGPT generates essays that are rated higher for quality than human-written essays. The writing style of the AI models exhibits linguistic characteristics that are different from those of the human-written essays, e.g., it is characterized by fewer discourse and epistemic markers, but more nominalizations and greater lexical diversity. Conclusions: Our results clearly demonstrate that models like ChatGPT outperform humans in generating argumentative essays. Since the technology is readily available for anyone to use, educators must act immediately. We must re-invent homework and develop teaching concepts that utilize these AI models in the same way as math utilized the calculator: teach the general concepts first and then use AI tools to free up time for other learning objectives. Large Language Models (LLMs) have revolutionized the domain of natural language processing (NLP) with remarkable capabilities of generating human-like text responses. However, despite these advancements, several works in the existing literature have raised serious concerns about the potential misuse of LLMs such as spreading misinformation, generating fake news, plagiarism in academia, and contaminating the web. To address these concerns, a consensus among the research community is to develop algorithmic solutions to detect AI-generated text. The basic idea is that whenever we can tell if the given text is either written by a human or an AI, we can utilize this information to address the above-mentioned concerns. To that end, a plethora of detection frameworks have been proposed, highlighting the possibilities of AI-generated text detection. But in parallel to the development of detection frameworks, researchers have also concentrated on designing strategies to elude detection, i.e., focusing on the impossibilities of AI-generated text detection. This is a crucial step in order to make sure the detection frameworks are robust enough and it is not too easy to fool a detector. Despite the huge interest and the flurry of research in this domain, the community currently lacks a comprehensive analysis of recent developments. In this survey, we aim to provide a concise categorization and overview of current work encompassing both the prospects and the limitations of AI-generated text detection. To enrich the collective knowledge, we engage in an exhaustive discussion on critical and challenging open questions related to ongoing research on AI-generated text detection. The emergence of foundation models, such as large language models (LLMs) GPT-4 and text-to-image models DALL-E, has opened up numerous possibilities across various domains. People can now use natural language (i.e. prompts) to communicate with AI to perform tasks. While people can use foundation models through chatbots (e.g., ChatGPT), chat, regardless of the capabilities of the underlying models, is not a production tool for building reusable AI services. APIs like LangChain allow for LLM-based application development but require substantial programming knowledge, thus posing a barrier. To mitigate this, we systematically review, summarise, refine and extend the concept of AI chain by incorporating the best principles and practices that have been accumulated in software engineering for decades into AI chain engineering, to systematize AI chain engineering methodology. We also develop a no-code integrated development environment, Prompt Sapper , which embodies these AI chain engineering principles and patterns naturally in the process of building AI chains, thereby improving the performance and quality of AI chains. With Prompt Sapper, AI chain engineers can compose prompt-based AI services on top of foundation models through chat-based requirement analysis and visual programming. Our user study evaluated and demonstrated the efficiency and correctness of Prompt Sapper. The recent advent of highly accurate and scalable large language models (LLMs) has taken the world by storm. From art to essays to computer code, LLMs are producing novel content that until recently was thought only humans could produce. Recent work in computing education has sought to understand the capabilities of LLMs for solving tasks such as writing code, explaining code, creating novel coding assignments, interpreting programming error messages, and more. However, these technologies continue to evolve at an astonishing rate leaving educators little time to adapt. This working group seeks to document the state-of-the-art for code generation LLMs, detail current opportunities and challenges related to their use, and present actionable approaches to integrating them into computing curricula. Machine learning has been proven to be a game-changing technology in every domain since the late 20th century. There have been many advancements in healthcare not only for the diagnosis of disease but advanced in the prognosis of the diseases. Artificial intelligence/machine learning (AI/ML) has progressed a lot in the medical domain in just a couple of decades and played a very important role in exploring human data to understand human body behavior better than ever before, for predicting and classifying all kinds of medical images or videos. A recent and best-used application is detecting COVID-19 by just checking the chest x-ray in a very accurate manner that can be used without human presence and stop the spread of the virus resulting in fewer doctors getting affected. It is known as generative adversarial networks. Some of the types of GANs used for differentiate domains without human supervision and many such mutations of GANs are useful in the health sector. This is simply a quick review of various technologies that will become more in-depth as time goes on. Large language models (LLM) not only have revolutionized the field of natural language processing (NLP) but also have the potential to reshape many other fields, e.g., recommender systems (RS). However, most of the related work treats an LLM as a component of the conventional recommendation pipeline (e.g., as a feature extractor), which may not be able to fully leverage the generative power of LLM. Instead of separating the recommendation process into multiple stages, such as score computation and re-ranking, this process can be simplified to one stage with LLM: directly generating recommendations from the complete pool of items. This survey reviews the progress, methods, and future directions of LLM-based generative recommendation by examining three questions: 1) What generative recommendation is, 2) Why RS should advance to generative recommendation, and 3) How to implement LLM-based generative recommendation for various RS tasks. We hope that this survey can provide the context and guidance needed to explore this interesting and emerging topic. Recent improvements in Natural Language Processing (NLP) have led to the creation of powerful language models like Chat Generative Pre-training Transformer (ChatGPT), Google’s BARD, Ernie which has shown to be very good at many different language tasks. But as language tasks get more complicated, having even more advanced NLP tool is essential nowadays. In this study, researchers look at how the latest versions of the GPT language model(GPT-4 & 5) can help with these advancements. The research method for this paper is based on a narrative analysis of the literature, which makes use of secondary data gathered from previously published studies including articles, websites, blogs, and visual and numerical facts etc. Findings of this study revealed that GPT-4 improves the model's training data, the speed with which it can be computed, the flawless answers that it provides with, and its overall performance. This study also shows that GPT-4 does much better than GPT-3.5 at translating languages, answering questions, and figuring out how people feel about things. The study provides a solid basis for building even more advanced NLP tools and programmes like GPT-5. The study will help the AI & LLM researchers, NLP developers and academicians in exploring more into this particular field of study. As this is the first kind of research comparing two NLP tools, therefore researchers suggested going for a quantitative research in the near future to validate the findings of this research. Due to the migration megatrend, efficient and effective second-language acquisition is vital. One proposed solution involves AI-enabled conversational agents for person-centered interactive language practice. We present results from ongoing action research targeting quality assurance of proprietary generative dialog models trained for virtual job interviews. The action team elicited a set of 38 requirements for which we designed corresponding automated test cases for 15 of particular interest to the evolving solution. Our results show that six of the test case designs can detect meaningful differences between candidate models. While quality assurance of natural language processing applications is complex, we provide initial steps toward an automated framework for machine learning model selection in the context of an evolving conversational agent. Future work will focus on model selection in an MLOps setting. With the advent of general-purpose Generative AI, the interest in discerning its impact on the labor market escalates. In an attempt to bridge the extant empirical void, we interpret the launch of ChatGPT as an exogenous shock, and implement a Difference-in-Differences (DID) approach to quantify its influence on text-related jobs and freelancers within an online labor marketplace. Our results reveal a significant decrease in transaction volume for gigs and freelancers directly exposed to ChatGPT. Additionally, this decline is particularly marked in units of relatively higher past transaction volume or lower quality standards. Yet, the negative effect is not universally experienced among service providers. Subsequent analyses illustrate that freelancers proficiently adapting to novel advancements and offering services that augment AI technologies can yield substantial benefits amidst this transformative period. Consequently, even though the advent of ChatGPT could conceivably substitute existing occupations, it also unfolds immense opportunities and carries the potential to reconfigure the future of work. This research contributes to the limited empirical repository exploring the profound influence of LLM-based generative AI on the labor market, furnishing invaluable insights for workers, job intermediaries, and regulatory bodies navigating this evolving landscape. Integration of digital twin (DT) and wireless channel provides new solution of channel modeling and simulation, and can assist to design, optimize and evaluate intelligent wireless communication system and networks. With DT channel modeling, the generated channel data can be closer to realistic channel measurements without requiring a prior channel model, and amount of channel data can be significantly increased. Artificial intelligence (AI) based modeling approach shows outstanding performance to solve such problems. In this work, a channel modeling method based on generative adversarial networks is proposed for DT channel, which can generate identical statistical distribution with measured channel. Model validation is conducted by comparing DT channel characteristics with measurements, and results show that DT channel leads to fairly good agreement with measured channel. Finally, a link-layer simulation is implemented based on DT channel. It is found that the proposed DT channel model can be well used to conduct link-layer simulation and its performance is comparable to using measurement data. The observations and results can facilitate the development of DT channel modeling and provide new thoughts for DT channel applications, as well as improving the performance and reliability of intelligent communication networking. This paper presents a novel approach to scientific discovery using an artificial intelligence (AI) environment known as ChatGPT, developed by OpenAI. This is the first paper entirely generated with outputs from ChatGPT. We demonstrate how ChatGPT can be instructed through a gamification environment to define and benchmark hypothetical physical theories. Through this environment, ChatGPT successfully simulates the creation of a new improved model, called GPT4, which combines the concepts of GPT in AI (generative pretrained transformer) and GPT in physics (generalized probabilistic theory). We show that GPT4 can use its built‐in mathematical and statistical capabilities to simulate and analyze physical laws and phenomena. As a demonstration of its language capabilities, GPT4 also generates a limerick about itself. Overall, our results demonstrate the promising potential for human‐AI collaboration in scientific discovery, as well as the importance of designing systems that effectively integrate AI's capabilities with human intelligence. This study examines the impact of GitHub Copilot on a large sample of Copilot users (n=934,533). The analysis shows that users on average accept nearly 30% of the suggested code, leading to increased productivity. Furthermore, our research demonstrates that the acceptance rate rises over time and is particularly high among less experienced developers, providing them with substantial benefits. Additionally, our estimations indicate that the adoption of generative AI productivity tools could potentially contribute to a $1.5 trillion increase in global GDP by 2030. Moreover, our investigation sheds light on the diverse contributors in the generative AI landscape, including major technology companies, startups, academia, and individual developers. The findings suggest that the driving force behind generative AI software innovation lies within the open-source ecosystem, particularly in the United States. Remarkably, a majority of repositories on GitHub are led by individual developers. As more developers embrace these tools and acquire proficiency in the art of prompting with generative AI, it becomes evident that this novel approach to software development has forged a unique inextricable link between humans and artificial intelligence. This symbiotic relationship has the potential to shape the construction of the world's software for future generations. With recent advances in generative AI, conversational models like ChatGPT have become feasible candidates for TAs. We investigate the practicality of using generative AI as TAs in introductory programming education by examining novice learners' interaction with TAs in a subgoal learning environment. To compare the learners' interaction and perception of the AI and human TAs, we conducted a between-subject study with 20 novice programming learners. Learners solve programming tasks by producing subgoals and subsolutions with the guidance of a TA. Our study shows that learners can solve tasks faster with comparable scores with AI TAs. Learners' perception of the AI TA is on par with that of human TAs in terms of speed and comprehensiveness of the replies and helpfulness, difficulty, and satisfaction of the conversation. Finally, we suggest guidelines to better design and utilize generative AI as TAs in programming education from the result of our chat log analysis. With the rise of prolific ChatGPT, the risk and consequences of AI-generated text has increased alarmingly. To address the inevitable question of ownership attribution for AI-generated artifacts, the US Copyright Office released a statement stating that 'If a work's traditional elements of authorship were produced by a machine, the work lacks human authorship and the Office will not register it'. Furthermore, both the US and the EU governments have recently drafted their initial proposals regarding the regulatory framework for AI. Given this cynosural spotlight on generative AI, AI-generated text detection (AGTD) has emerged as a topic that has already received immediate attention in research, with some initial methods having been proposed, soon followed by emergence of techniques to bypass detection. This paper introduces the Counter Turing Test (CT^2), a benchmark consisting of techniques aiming to offer a comprehensive evaluation of the robustness of existing AGTD techniques. Our empirical findings unequivocally highlight the fragility of the proposed AGTD methods under scrutiny. Amidst the extensive deliberations on policy-making for regulating AI development, it is of utmost importance to assess the detectability of content generated by LLMs. Thus, to establish a quantifiable spectrum facilitating the evaluation and ranking of LLMs according to their detectability levels, we propose the AI Detectability Index (ADI). We conduct a thorough examination of 15 contemporary LLMs, empirically demonstrating that larger LLMs tend to have a higher ADI, indicating they are less detectable compared to smaller LLMs. We firmly believe that ADI holds significant value as a tool for the wider NLP community, with the potential to serve as a rubric in AI-related policy-making.